Title: OmniManip: Towards General Robotic Manipulation via Object-Centric Interaction Primitives as Spatial Constraints

URL Source: https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2025/papers/Pan_OmniManip_Towards_General_Robotic_Manipulation_via_Object-Centric_Interaction_Primitives_as_CVPR_2025_paper.pdf

Published Time: Mon, 02 Jun 2025 01:19:04 GMT

Number of Pages: 11

Markdown Content:
# OmniManip: Towards General Robotic Manipulation via Object-Centric Interaction Primitives as Spatial Constraints 

## Mingjie Pan 1,2∗, Jiyao Zhang 1,2∗, Tianshu Wu 1, Yinghao Zhao 3, Wenlong Gao 3, Hao Dong 1,2†

> 1

## CFCS, School of CS, Peking University 2PKU-AgiBot Lab 3AgiBot https://omnimanip.github.io “Press button with hammer”                     

> “Press green button” “Insert flower into vase” “Insert pen into holder” “Close drawer”
> “Recycle battery” “Pour tea into the cup”
> “Pick up cup on dish”
> “Open drawer”
> “Put the lid on the teapot” “Close lid of laptop” “Open bottle”
> Passive Active

Pour tea into the cup. 

Figure 1. We proposed OmniManip , an open-vocabulary manipulation method that bridges the gap between the high-level reasoning of vision-language models (VLM) and the low-level precision, featuring closed-loop capabilities in both planning and execution. 

## Abstract 

The development of general robotic systems capable of manipulating in unstructured environments is a signif-icant challenge. While Vision-Language Models(VLM) ex-cel in high-level commonsense reasoning, they lack the fine-grained 3D spatial understanding required for precise ma-nipulation tasks. Fine-tuning VLM on robotic datasets to create Vision-Language-Action Models(VLA) is a potential solution, but it is hindered by high data collection costs and generalization issues. To address these challenges, we pro-pose a novel object-centric representation that bridges the gap between VLM’s high-level reasoning and the low-level precision required for manipulation. Our key insight is that an object’s canonical space, defined by its functional affor-dances, provides a structured and semantically meaningful way to describe interaction primitives, such as points and directions. These primitives act as a bridge, translating VLM’s commonsense reasoning into actionable 3D spatial constraints. In this context, we introduce a dual closed- 

> *: Equal contributions. †: Corresponding author

loop, open-vocabulary robotic manipulation system: one loop for high-level planning through primitive resampling, interaction rendering and VLM checking, and another for low-level execution via 6D pose tracking. This design en-sures robust, real-time control without requiring VLM fine-tuning. Extensive experiments demonstrate strong zero-shot generalization across diverse robotic manipulation tasks, highlighting the potential of this approach for automating large-scale data generation. 

## 1. Introduction 

Developing a general robotic manipulation system has long been a challenging task, primarily due to the complexity and variability of real-world [26, 49, 50]. Inspired by the rapid advancements in Large Language Models (LLM)[1, 43] and Vision-Language Models (VLM) [25, 28, 34, 56], which leverage vast amounts of internet data to acquire rich com-monsense knowledge, researchers have recently turned at-tention to exploring their application in robotics[14, 55]. Most existing works focus on utilizing this knowledge for high-level task planning, such as semantic reasoning This CVPR paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation. Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version; the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore. 17359 [4, 31, 37]. Despite these advances, current VLMs, primar-ily trained on extensive 2D visual data, lack the 3D spatial understanding ability necessary for precise, low-level ma-nipulation tasks. This limitation poses challenges in manip-ulations within unstructured environments. One approach to overcoming this limitation is to fine-tune VLM on large-scale robotic datasets, transforming them into VLA [2, 3, 8, 19]. However, this faces two major challenges: 1) acquiring diverse, high-quality robotic data is costly and time-consuming, and 2) fine-tuning VLM into VLA results in agent-specific representations, which are tai-lored to specific robots, limiting their generalizability. Apromising alternative is to abstract robotic actions into inter-action primitives ( e.g ., points or vectors) and leverage VLM reasoning to define the spatial constraints of these primi-tives, while traditional planning algorithms handle execu-tion [13, 15, 27]. However, existing methods for defining and using primitives have several limitations: The process of generating primitive proposals is task-agnostic, which poses the risk of lacking suitable proposals. Additionally, relying on manually designed rules for post-processing pro-posals also introduces instability. This naturally leads to an important question: How can we develop more efficient and generalizable representations that bridge VLM high-level reasoning with precise, low-level robotic manipulation? 

To address this challenge, we propose a novel object-centric intermediate representation incorporating interac-tion points and directions within an object’s canonical space. This representation bridges the gap between VLM’s high-level commonsense reasoning and precise 3D spatial understanding. Our key insight is that an object’s canon-ical space is typically defined based on its functional af-fordances. As a result, we can describe an object’s func-tionality in a more structured and semantically meaningful way within its canonical space. Meanwhile, recent advance-ments in universal object pose estimation [7, 57, 58] make it feasible to canonicalize a wide range of objects. Specifically, we employ a universal 6D object pose es-timation model [58] to canonicalize objects and describe their rigid transformations during interactions. In parallel, a single-view 3D generation network generates detailed ob-ject meshes [29, 41]. Within the canonical space, interac-tion directions are initially sampled along the object’s prin-cipal axes, providing a coarse set of interaction possibili-ties. Meanwhile, the VLM predicts interaction points. Sub-sequently, the VLM identifies task-relevant primitives and estimates the spatial constraints between them. To address the hallucination issue in VLM reasoning, we introduce a self-correction mechanism through interaction rendering and primitive resampling that enables closed-loop reason-ing. Once the final strategy is determined, actions are com-puted through constrained optimization, with pose tracking ensuring robust, real-time control in a closed-loop execu-tion phase. Our method offers several key advantages: 1) 

Efficient and Effective Interaction Primitive Sampling :By leveraging the object’s canonical space, our approach enables efficient and effective sampling of interaction prim-itives, enhancing the system’s reasoning capabilities. 2) 

Dual Closed-Loop, Open-Vocabulary Robotic Manipu-lation System : Benefiting from the proposed object-centric intermediate representation, our method implements a dual closed-loop system. The rendering and resampling process drives a reasoning loop for decision-making, while pose tracking ensures a closed loop for action execution. In summary, our contributions are threefold: • We propose a novel object-centric interaction representa-tion that bridges the gap between VLM’s high-level com-monsense reasoning and low-level robotic manipulation. • To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to present a planning and execution dual closed-loop open-vocabulary manipulation system without VLM fine-tuning. • Extensive experiments demonstrate our method’s strong zero-shot generalization across diverse manipulation tasks, and we also highlight its potential for automating robotic manipulation data generation. 

## 2. Related Work 

Foundation Models For Robotics The emergence of foun-dation models has significantly influenced the field of robotics[11, 18, 53], particularly in the application of vision-language models[1, 4, 12, 23, 28, 52], which ex-cel in environment understanding and high-level common-sense reasoning. These models demonstrate the potential for controlling robots to perform general tasks in novel and unstructured environments. Some studies [2, 3, 19, 24] have fine-tuned VLM on robotics datasets to create VLA models that output robotic trajectories, but these efforts are limited by the high cost of data collection and is-sues with generalization. Other approaches attempt to ex-tract operation primitives using visual foundation models [9, 13, 15, 21, 27, 33, 54], which are then used as vi-sual or language prompts for VLM to perform high-level commonsense reasoning, combined with motion planners [38, 39, 42] for low-level control. However, these methods are constrained by the ambiguity of compressing 3D prim-itives into the 2D images or 1D text required by VLM and the hallucination tendencies of VLM themselves, making it difficult to ensure that the high-level plans generated by VLM are accurate. In this work, we demonstrate Omni-Manip’s unique advantages in addressing these challenges, particularly in fine-grained 3D understanding and mitigat-ing large model hallucinations. 

Representations for Manipulation Structural representa-tions determine the capabilities and effectiveness of ma-nipulation methods. Among various types of representa-tions, keypoints are a popular choice due to their flexibil-17360 Pour tea into the cup. Task Relevant Object Grounding and Task Stage Partitioning 

Vision 

Language 

Model 

Ⅰ. Mesh generation and 

canonicalization 

Vision 

Foundation 

Model 

Teapot Cup 

Object -Centric Interaction Primitives as Spatial Constraints 

Ⅱ. Task related interaction 

primitives 

Ⅲ. Primitives as spatial constraints 

Multiple -Constrained Online Trajectory Planning 

3D AIGC 

6D Pose 

Estimator             

> CONSTRAINTS
> 1. Active axis and passive
> axis are aligned.
> 2. Active point is <5cm>
> <negative> along passive
> axis to passive point .

Optimized trajectory 6D Pose 

Tracker 

Closed -Loop Execution 

Closed -Loop 

Planning             

> Rendering
> Passive Active
> STAGES
> 1. Grasp the handle of teapot with gripper.
> •Action: Grasp
> •Active: Gripper
> •Passive: Teapot
> 2. Pour tea from teapot into cup.
> •Action: Pour
> •Active: Teapot
> •Passive: Cup

Figure 2. Overview framework. Given instruction and RGB-D observation marked by VFM, VLM firstly filters task-related objects and partitions the task into stages. For each stage, VLM extracts object-centric canonical interaction primitives as spatial constraints in a closed-loop manner. For execution, the trajectory is optimized by constraints and updated in a closed loop using a 6D Pose Tracker. 

ity, generalization, and ability to model variability [32, 35, 36, 48]. However, these keypoints-based methods require manual task-specific annotations to generate actions. To enable zero-shot open-world manipulation, studies such as [15, 27, 33] have transformed keypoints into visual prompts for VLM, facilitating the automatic generation of high-level planning results. Despite their advantages, keypoints can be unstable; they struggle under occlusion and pose chal-lenges in the extraction and selection of specific keypoints. Another common representation is the 6D pose, which ef-ficiently defines long-range dependencies between objects for manipulation and offers a degree of robustness to occlu-sion [16, 17, 46, 47]. However, these methods necessitate prior modeling of geometric relationships and, due to the sparse nature of poses, cannot provide fine-grained geom-etry. This limitation can lead to failures in manipulation strategies across different objects due to intra-class varia-tions. To address these issues, OmniManip combines the fine-grained geometry of keypoints with the stability of the 6D pose. It automatically extracts detailed functional points and directions within the canonical coordinate system of ob-jects using VLM, enabling precise manipulation. 

## 3. Method 

Here we discuss: (1) How do we formulate robotic manip-ulation via interaction primitives as spatial constraints(Sec. 3.1)? (2) How to extract canonical interaction primitives in a generic and open vocabulary way (Sec. 3.2)? (3) Why can OmniManip achieve a dual closed-loop system (Sec. 3.3)? 

3.1. Manipulation with Interaction Primitives 

In our formulation, complex robotic tasks are decomposed into stages, each defined by object interaction primitives with spatial constraints. This structured approach allows for the precise definition of task requirements and facilitates the execution of complex manipulation tasks. In this section, we detail how interaction primitives serve as the foundation for spatial constraints, enabling robust manipulation. 

Task Decomposition. As shown in Figure 2, given a task 

T (e.g ., pouring tea into a cup ), we first utilize SAM[20] and GroundingDINO [30], two Visual Foundation Models (VFMs), to mark all foreground objects in the scene as vi-sual prompt [51]. Subsequently, a VLM [1] is employed to filter task-relevant objects and decompose the task into mul-17361 Visible and Tangible                    

> Invisible or Intangible
> Grasp (Passive) Pour (Active)
> (𝑥𝑥 1,𝑦𝑦 1)(𝑥𝑥 1,𝑦𝑦 2)
> (𝑥𝑥 2,𝑦𝑦 1)(𝑥𝑥 2,𝑦𝑦 2)
> (𝑥𝑥 1,𝑦𝑦 1)(𝑥𝑥 1,𝑦𝑦 2)
> (𝑥𝑥 2,𝑦𝑦 1)(𝑥𝑥 2,𝑦𝑦 2)
> Grasp (Passive) Pour/ Place (Passive)
> (𝑥𝑥 1,𝑦𝑦 1)(𝑥𝑥 1,𝑦𝑦 2)
> (𝑥𝑥 2,𝑦𝑦 1)(𝑥𝑥 2,𝑦𝑦 2)

Figure 3. Interaction points generation. 

tiple stages S = {S 1, S2, . . . , Sn}, where each stage Si can be formalized as Si = {Ai, Oactive  

> i

, Opassive  

> i

}, where Ai rep-resents the action to be performed ( e.g ., grasp), and Oactive 

> i

and Opassive  

> i

refer to the object initiating the interaction and the object being acted upon, respectively. For example, in Figure 2, teapot is the passive object in the stage of grasping teapot while teapot is the active object and cup is passive in the stage of pouring tea into the cup. We define 6 atomic ac-tions for VLM to select and complete constraint-based ma-nipulation (detailed in supplemental material A.4), note that they are basic building blocks (instance/task/environment-agnostic) and insufficient for manipulation without Omni-Manip’s 3D spatial reasoning. 

Object-Centric Canonical Interaction Primitives. We propose a novel object-centric representation with canoni-cal interaction primitives to describe how objects interact during manipulation tasks. Specifically, an object’s interac-tion primitives are characterized by its interaction point and direction in canonical space. The interaction point p ∈ R3

denotes a key location on the object where interaction oc-curs, while the interaction direction v ∈ R3 represents the primary axis relevant to the task. Together, these form the interaction primitive O = {p, v}, encapsulating the essen-tial intrinsic geometric and functional properties required to meet task constraints. These canonical interaction primi-tives are defined relative to their canonical space, remaining consistent across different scenarios, enabling more gener-alized and reusable manipulation strategies. 

Interaction Primitives with Spatial Constraints. Spatial constraints define the geometric relationships required be-tween active and passive objects during interaction. At each stage Si, we define a pair of analytical constraints that en-force both positional and orientational alignment. Formally, the spatial constraint Ci is expressed as: 

Ci =

Oa 

> i

, Op 

> i

D(Oa 

> i

, Op 

> i

) = di

| {z }

> distance constraint

, Θ( Oa 

> i

, Op 

> i

) = θi

| {z }

> angular constraint

 (1) The axis passes through the teapot's center, extending outward from the side, perpendicular to the spout outlet.         

> The axis is aligned vertically through the teapot, passing from the base to the top, perpendicular to the spout outlet.
> The axis is aligned horizontally, passing through the teapot's center, extending outward from the spout outlet.
> Task: Pour tea into the cup
> Stage1: Grasp the handle of teapot with gripper
> Stage2: Pour tea from teapot into the cup
> •Action: Pour
> •Active: Teapot
> •Passive: Cup
> Teapot Cup
> Vision  Language  Model
> Large  Language  Model
> Principal axis Sorted axis
> 1
> 0

Figure 4. Interaction directions extraction. 

where D(Oa, Op) = ∥pa − pp∥2 computes the Euclidean distance between the interaction points of Oa and Op.

Θ( Oa, Op) = arccos 

 va·vp

> ∥va∥2∥vp∥2



measures the angle be-tween the interaction vectors of Oa and Op. θi ∈ { 0, π }.Once the constraints Ci have been defined, the task exe-cution can be formulated as an optimization problem. 

3.2. Primitives and Constraints Extraction 

In this section, we detail the process of extracting inter-action primitives and their spatial constraints C for each stage. As illustrated in Figure 2, we first obtain 3D ob-ject meshes for both the task-relevant active and passive ob-jects via single-view 3D generation [29, 41, 59], followed by pose estimation with Omni6DPose[58] for object canon-icalization (detailed in supplemental material A.3). Next, we extract task-relevant interaction primitives and their cor-responding constraints. 

Grounding Interaction Point. As shown in Figure 3, inter-action points are categorized as Visible and Tangible (e.g ., a teapot handle) or Invisible or Intangible (e.g ., the cen-ter of its opening). To enhance VLM for interaction points grounding, SCAFFOLD [22] visual prompting mechanism is employed, which overlays a Cartesian grid onto the in-put image. Visible points are directly localized in the image plane, while invisible points are inferred through multi-view reasoning based on proposed canonical object representa-tions, as illustrated in Figure 3. Reasoning begins from the primary viewpoint, with ambiguities resolved by switching to an orthogonal view. This approach enables more flexi-ble and reliable interaction point grounding. For tasks like grasping, heatmaps are generated from multiple interaction points, improving the robustness of the grasping model. 

Sampling Interaction Direction. In the canonical space, the principal axes of an object are often functionally rele-vant. As illustrated in Figure 4, we treat the principal axes as candidate interaction directions. However, assessing the relevance of these directions to the task is challenging due to the limited spatial understanding of the current VLM. To 17362 address this, we propose a VLM caption and LLM scoring mechanism: first, we use the VLM to generate semantic de-scriptions for each candidate axis, and then employ a LLM to infer and score the relevance of these descriptions to the task. This process results in an ordered set of candidate di-rections that are most aligned with the task requirements. Ultimately, the interaction primitives with constraints are generated with VLM, yielding an ordered list of constrained interaction primitives for each stage Si, denoted as Ki =

{C(1)  

> i

, C (2)  

> i

, . . . , C (N ) 

> i

}.

3.3. Dual Closed-Loop System 

As outlined in Section 3.2, we obtain the interaction prim-itives of the active and passive objects, denoted as Oactive 

and Opassive , respectively, along with the spatial constraints 

C that define their spatial relationships. However, this is an open-loop inference, which inherently limits the robustness and adaptability of the system. These limitations arise pri-marily from two sources: 1) the hallucination effect in large models, and 2) the dynamic nature of real-world environ-ments. To overcome these challenges, we propose a dual closed-loop system, as illustrated in Figure 2. 

Algorithm 1 Self-Correction Algorithm via RRC Input: Task T , Stage Si, Initial List of Primitives with Con-straints Ki =

n

C(1)  

> i

, C(2)  

> i

, . . . , C(N )

> i

o

Output: Successful Constraints ˆCi or Task Failure  

> 1:

k ← 1, maxSteps ← N , ref ine ← False  

> 2:

while k ≤ maxSteps do  

> 3:

k ← k + 1  

> 4:

Render: Ii ← Render (C(k) 

> i

) 

> 5:

Check: state ← VLM (T , Si, Ii, C(k) 

> i

, ref ine ) 

> 6:

if state = ‘Refine’ and ref ine = False then  

> 7:

Resample: Update Ki ← Resample (C(k) 

> i

) 

> 8:

k ← 1, maxSteps ← M , ref ine ← True  

> 9:

else if state = ‘Success’ then  

> 10:

return C(k) 

> i
> 11:

end if  

> 12:

end while  

> 13:

return Task Failed Closed-loop Planning. To improve the accuracy of in-teraction primitives and mitigate hallucination issues in the VLM, we introduce a self-correction mechanism based on Resampling, Rendering, and Checking ( RRC ). This mechanism uses real-time feedback from a visual language model (VLM) to detect and correct interaction errors, en-suring precise task execution. The RRC process consists of two stages: the initial phase and the refinement phase .The overall RRC mechanism is outlined in Algorithm 1. In the initial phase, the system evaluates the interaction con-straints Ki defined in Section 3.2, which specify the spa-tial relationships between active and passive objects. For each constraint C(k) 

> i

, the system renders an interaction im-age Ii based on the current configuration and submits it to the VLM for validation. The VLM returns one of three out-comes: success , failure , or refinement . If success , the con-straint is accepted, and the task proceeds. If failure , the next constraint is evaluated. If refinement , the system enters the refinement phase for further optimization. In the refine-ment phase, the system performs fine-grained resampling around the predicted interaction direction vi to correct mis-alignments between the functional and geometric axes of objects. The system uniformly samples six refined direc-tions v(j) 

> i

around vi and evaluates them. 

Closed-loop Execution. Once the interaction primitives and the corresponding spatial constraints C are defined for each stage, the task execution can be formulated as an optimization problem. The objective is to minimize the loss function to determine the target pose Pee ∗ of the end-effector. The optimization problem can be expressed as: 

Pee ∗ = arg min 

> Pee



> N

X

> j=1

Lj (Pee )

 , s.t. 

L = {L C , Lcollision , Lpath },

(2) where the constraint loss LC ensures that the action ad-heres to the task’s spatial constraints C, and is defined as 

LC = ρ(C, Pactive  

> t

, Ppassive  

> t

), where Pactive  

> t

= Φ( Pee t ) (3) Here, ρ(·) measures the deviation between the current spatial relationship of the active object Pactive  

> t

and the pas-sive object Ppassive  

> t

from the desired constraint C, while Φ( ·)

maps the end-effector pose to the active object’s pose. The collision loss Lcollision prevents the end-effector from collid-ing with obstacles in the environment and is defined as 

Lcollision =

> N

X

> j=1

max (0 , d min − d(Pee , Oj )) 2 , (4) where d(Pee , Oj ) represents the distance between the end-effector and the obstacle Oj , and dmin is the mini-mum allowable safety distance. The path loss Lpath ensures smooth motion and is defined as 

Lpath = λ1dtrans (Pee t , Pee ) + λ2drot (Pee t , Pee ), (5) where dtrans (·) and drot (·) represent the translational and rotational displacements of the end-effector, respectively, and λ1 and λ2 are weighting factors that balance the influ-ence of translation and rotation. By minimizing these loss functions, the system dynamically adjusts the end-effector pose Pee , ensuring successful task execution while avoid-ing collisions and maintaining smooth motion. 17363 Tasks VoxPoser CoPa ReKep OmniManip(Ours) 

Auto Closed-loop Open-loop Pour tea 0/10 1/10 3/10 7/10 6/10 Insert flower into vase 0/10 4/10 2/10 6/10 4/10 Insert the pen in holder 0/10 4/10 3/10 7/10 5/10 Recycle the battery 6/10 5/10 7/10 8/10 6/10 Pick up the cup on the dish 3/10 2/10 9/10 8/10 7/10 Fit the lid onto the teapot 0/10 2/10 3/10 5/10 3/10 

Total 15.0% 30.0% 45.0% 68.3% 51.7% Open the drawer 1/10 4/10 - 6/10 4/10 Close the drawer 3/10 3/10 - 8/10 6/10 Hammer the button 0/10 3/10 - 4/10 2/10 Press the red button 0/10 3/10 - 7/10 6/10 Close the lid of the laptop 4/10 3/10 - 6/10 4/10 Open the jar 2/10 0/10 - 6/10 5/10 

Total 16.7% 26.7% - 61.7% 45.0%   

> Table 1. Quantitative results across 12 real-world manipulation tasks. The first six tasks focus on rigid object manipulation, while the latter involves articulated object manipulation. ‘-’ indicates that the method can not handle this task due to its underlying principles.

While Equation 3 outlines how interaction primitives and their corresponding spatial constraints can be leveraged to optimize the executable end-effector pose, real-world task execution often involves significant dynamic factors. For instance, deviations in the grasp pose may result in unin-tended object movement during a grasping task. Moreover, in certain dynamic environments, the target object may be displaced. These challenges highlight the critical impor-tance of closed-loop execution in handling such uncertain-ties. To address these challenges, our system leverages the proposed object-centric interaction primitives and directly employs an off-the-shelf 6D object pose tracking algorithm to continuously update the poses of both the active object 

Pactive  

> t

and the passive object Ppassive  

> t

in real-time, as re-quired in Equation 4. This real-time feedback allows for dynamic adjustments to the target pose of the end-effector, enabling robust and accurate closed-loop execution. 

## 4. Experiment 

We aim to answer the following questions: (1) To what extent does OmniManip perform effectively in open-vocabulary manipulation tasks across diverse real-world scenarios (Section 4.2)? (2) What role do the system’s criti-cal features play in enhancing its overall performance (Sec-tion 4.3)? (3) How promising is OmniManip for automating the expert demonstration generation to enable scalable imi-tation learning (Supplemental material A.6)? 

4.1. Experimental Setup 

Hardware Configuration. Our experimental platform is built around a Franka Emika Panda robotic arm, with its parallel gripper’s fingers replaced by UMI fingers[6]. For perception, we employ two Intel RealSense D415 depth cameras. One camera is mounted at the gripper to provide a first-person view of the manipulation area, while the sec-ond camera is positioned opposite the robot to offer a third-person view of the workspace. 

Tasks and Metrics. As shown in Figure 1, We designed 12 tasks to evaluate models’ manipulation capabilities in real-world scenarios. Six of these involve rigid object manipu-lation ( e.g ., pour tea ), while the others focus on articulated manipulation ( e.g ., open the drawer ). These tasks cover a diverse set of objects and are intended to assess the models’ ability to generalize and adapt in complex environments. For each task, 10 trials were performed for each approach, and the success rate was recorded. After each trial, the ob-ject layout was reconfigured to ensure robust evaluation. 

Baselines. We compare our approach with three baselines: 1) VoxPoser [14], which uses LLM and VLM to gener-ate 3D value maps for synthesizing robot trajectories, ex-celling in zero-shot learning and closed-loop control; 2) 

CoPa [13], which introduces spatial constraints of object parts and combines with VLM to enable open-vocabulary manipulation; and 3) ReKep [15], which employs relational keypoint constraints and hierarchical optimization for real-time action generation from natural language instructions. 

Implement Details We use GPT-4o as the vision-language model, leveraging a small set of interaction examples as prompts to guide reasoning for manipulation tasks. The spe-cific prompts used are detailed in the appendix. We employ off-the-shelf models [10, 45] for 6-DOF universal grasping and utilize GenPose++[58] for universal 6D pose estima-tion. To satisfy real-time requirements, we discretized the relevant parameters and employed sampling-based method 17364 Method 0◦ 25 ◦ 45 ◦ 75 ◦ 90 ◦

ReKep 0/10 1/10 3/10 5/10 7/10 OmniManip 7/10 8/10 8/10 7/10 7/10   

> Table 2. Quantitative analysis of the impact of viewpoints on the performance, using ‘Recycle the battery’ as a case study.

[39] as an approximate solution for optimization. 

4.2. Open-Vocabulary Manipulation 

We conducted a comprehensive evaluation of OmniMa-nip on 12 open-vocabulary manipulation tasks, ranging from straightforward actions such as pick-and-place to more complex tasks involving object-object interactions with di-rectional constraints and articulated object manipulation. As shown in Table 1, our method exhibits robust zero-shot generalization and superior performance across the board without task-specific training. This generalization capabil-ity can be attributed to the commonsense knowledge em-bedded in VLM, while the proposed efficient object-centric interaction primitives facilitate precise 3D perception and execution. Additionally, we provide qualitative results in the appendix. OmniManip exhibits a substantial perfor-mance advantage over baseline methods, primarily due to two key factors: 1) the efficiency and stability of the pro-posed object-centric canonical interaction primitives, as fur-ther validated through extensive experiments in Section 4.3, and 2) the advanced dual closed-loop system for planning and execution. By incorporating a novel self-correction mechanism based on RRC, the system effectively mitigates hallucination issues of large models. As shown in Table 1, this closed-loop planning yields over a 15% improvement in performance for both rigid and articulated object manipula-tion tasks. A detailed qualitative analysis of the closed-loop reasoning and execution is provided in Section 4.3. 

4.3. Core Attributes of OmniManip 

Reliability of OmniManip. To effectively bridge VLM with low-level manipulation, reliable interaction primitives are crucial. We evaluate this across two key dimensions: stability and viewpoint consistency. Stability indicates the reliable extraction of task-relevant interaction primitives. As shown in Figure 5, ReKep extracts keypoint propos-als through semantic clustering but lacks sensitivity to spa-tial geometry and task, making it challenging to generate sufficient task-relevant keypoints. CoPa extracts parts via explicit pixel segmentation, exhibiting high sensitivity to image texture and part shape. In contrast, OmniManip, an object-centric interaction primitive, samples interaction points in a canonical space aligned with the object’s func-tionality, ensuring both robustness and task-specific preci-sion. Consistency of primitive extraction across varying viewpoints is critical to ensuring the stability of manipula-tion. Both ReKep and CoPa exhibit difficulties in this regard Execution  Planning        

> Ours ReKep CoPa
> Figure 5. Stability analysis of interaction primitives. Visualiza-tion of planning and corresponding execution results across differ-ent methods, demonstrated using the ‘ Pour tea ’ as a case study. OmniManip ReKep
> 90 °
> 0°
> 45 °
> Figure 6. Qualitative analysis of the impact of viewpoints on the performance, using ‘Recycle the battery’ as a case study.

due to their reliance on sampling points directly from the object’s surface. Taking ReKep as an example, Figure 6 illustrates the planning results of ReKep and OmniManip for the ‘ Recycle battery ’ task across different viewpoints. As shown, ReKep successfully identifies interaction points from a 90 ◦ top-down view but fails under a 0 ◦ frontal view, where the ideal target point is floating in the air. In con-trast, OmniManip utilizes an object-centric primitive rep-resentation in a canonical space, ensuring viewpoint invari-ance. Table 2 presents the quantitative comparison, demon-strating that OmniManip’s performance is nearly invariant across varying viewpoints, whereas ReKep’s performance is significantly affected by changes in viewpoint. 

Sampling Recycle Battery Pour Tea 

Method Suc. Rate Iter. Suc. Rate Iter. 

Uniform 50% 1.8 30% 3.4 

OmniManip 80% 1.7 70% 1.8 

> Table 3. Quantitative analysis of the primitive sampling efficiency.

Efficiency of OmniManip. OmniManip doesn’t assume strict alignment between the interaction direction and prin-cipal axis, using the latter as an initialization. Interaction di-rection proposals are driven by a targeted sampling strategy. 17365 Initial Scene Final Scene   

> Execution
> Inser tthe pen in holder.
> Self correction Figure 7. Closed-planning. Self-correction mechanism via RRC.

Compared with uniform sampling in SO(3), OmniManip samples along the principal axes of the object’s canonical space. Since the canonical space is aligned with the object’s functionality, this ensures both efficient and effective sam-pling. To evaluate this efficiency, we compared OmniMa-nip’s sampling strategy with uniform sampling in SO(3) us-ing two key metrics: the number of iterations and the corre-sponding task success rate. As shown in Table 3 OmniMa-nip not only requires fewer iterations but also achieves supe-rior task performance, demonstrating that aligning the sam-pling process with the object’s functionality reduces sam-pling overhead while improving overall performance. 

Closed-Loop Planning. In current methods, the plan-ning component of VLM operates in an open-loop man-ner, meaning it cannot verify the correctness of the plan before execution. While ReKep achieves closed-loop con-trol through point tracking, this only functions at the execu-tion stage and does not provide feedback on the planning re-sults generated by the VLM. In contrast, OmniManip intro-duces a unique self-correction mechanism via RRC, achiev-ing closed-loop planning, which significantly reduces plan-ning failures caused by VLM hallucinations, thereby of-fering more reliable planning. We report the results with closed-loop planning disabled in Table 1, where the task success rate decreases by over 15% in both rigid and artic-ulated object manipulation tasks, demonstrating the effec-tiveness of the closed-loop planning approach. In Figure 7, we qualitatively illustrate the closed-loop planning results using the ”Insert the pen in a holder” task as an example. It is evident that OmniManip can effectively pre-render the planning outcomes and achieve self-correction through the RRC process, thereby enabling closed-loop planning. 

Closed-Loop Execution. Even with perfect planning, open-loop execution can still lead to task failure. Figure 8 illustrates two typical examples where planning succeeds, but open-loop execution causes failure. In the left image of Figure 8, the relative pose between the gripper and the object changes during the interaction, while the right image of Figure 8 shows a scenario where the target pose is dy-namic, such as when the object moves during the task. To 

> Figure 8. Two typical failure cases without closed-loop execution.

address these challenges, OmniManip employs pose track-ing to enable real-time closed-loop execution. Recent work, ReKep, uses point tracking for closed-loop control but suf-fers from occlusions, leading to a 47% failure rate [15]. In contrast, OmniManip demonstrates greater robustness to occlusions caused by object movement. This is a benefit of object-centric pose tracking, enabling continued tracking of canonical space interaction primitives based on the object pose, even when the primitives are no longer visible. 

## 5. Conclusion 

In this work, we presented a novel object-centric intermedi-ate representation that effectively bridges the gap between VLM and the precise spatial reasoning required for robotic manipulation. We structured interaction primitives in ob-ject canonical space to translate high-level semantic reason-ing into actionable 3D spatial constraints. The proposed dual closed-loop system ensures robust decision-making and execution, all without VLM fine-tuning. Our approach demonstrates strong zero-shot generalization across a va-riety of manipulation tasks, highlighting its potential for automating robotic data generation and improving the ef-ficiency of robotic systems in unstructured environments. This work provides a promising foundation for future re-search into scalable, open-vocabulary robotic manipulation. 

Limitations. While advantageous, OmniManip also has limitations. It cannot model deformable objects due to pose representation. Its effectiveness also hinges on the mesh quality of 3D AIGC, which remains challenging despite progress. Additionally, multiple VLM calls present com-putational challenges, even with parallel processing. 

## Acknowledgments 

This project was supported by National Youth Talent Sup-port Program (8200800081) and National Natural Science Foundation of China (62376006). We would like to thank Mingdong Wu and Tianhao Wu from PKU for their fruit-ful discussions, and Baifeng Xie from AgiBot for valuable technical support. 17366 References 

[1] Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama Ah-mad, Ilge Akkaya, Florencia Leoni Aleman, Diogo Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman, Shyamal Anadkat, et al. Gpt-4 technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774 ,2023. 1, 2, 3 [2] Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Justice Carbajal, Yevgen Chebotar, Joseph Dabis, Chelsea Finn, Keerthana Gopalakr-ishnan, Karol Hausman, Alex Herzog, Jasmine Hsu, et al. Rt-1: Robotics transformer for real-world control at scale. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.06817 , 2022. 2 [3] Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Justice Carbajal, Yevgen Chebotar, Xi Chen, Krzysztof Choromanski, Tianli Ding, Danny Driess, Avinava Dubey, Chelsea Finn, et al. Rt-2: Vision-language-action models transfer web knowledge to robotic control. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.15818 , 2023. 2 [4] Boyuan Chen, Zhuo Xu, Sean Kirmani, Brain Ichter, Dorsa Sadigh, Leonidas Guibas, and Fei Xia. Spatialvlm: Endow-ing vision-language models with spatial reasoning capabili-ties. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Com-puter Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 14455–14465, 2024. 2 [5] Cheng Chi, Zhenjia Xu, Siyuan Feng, Eric Cousineau, Yilun Du, Benjamin Burchfiel, Russ Tedrake, and Shuran Song. Diffusion policy: Visuomotor policy learning via action dif-fusion. The International Journal of Robotics Research , page 02783649241273668, 2023. 13 [6] Cheng Chi, Zhenjia Xu, Chuer Pan, Eric Cousineau, Ben-jamin Burchfiel, Siyuan Feng, Russ Tedrake, and Shu-ran Song. Universal manipulation interface: In-the-wild robot teaching without in-the-wild robots. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.10329 , 2024. 6, 12 [7] Qiyu Dai, Jiyao Zhang, Qiwei Li, Tianhao Wu, Hao Dong, Ziyuan Liu, Ping Tan, and He Wang. Domain randomization-enhanced depth simulation and restoration for perceiving and grasping specular and transparent objects. In European Con-ference on Computer Vision , pages 374–391. Springer, 2022. 2[8] Danny Driess, Fei Xia, Mehdi SM Sajjadi, Corey Lynch, Aakanksha Chowdhery, Brian Ichter, Ayzaan Wahid, Jonathan Tompson, Quan Vuong, Tianhe Yu, et al. Palm-e: An embodied multimodal language model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.03378 , 2023. 2 [9] Jiafei Duan, Wentao Yuan, Wilbert Pumacay, Yi Ru Wang, Kiana Ehsani, Dieter Fox, and Ranjay Krishna. Manipulate-anything: Automating real-world robots using vision-language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.18915 , 2024. 2[10] Hao-Shu Fang, Chenxi Wang, Hongjie Fang, Minghao Gou, Jirong Liu, Hengxu Yan, Wenhai Liu, Yichen Xie, and Cewu Lu. Anygrasp: Robust and efficient grasp perception in spa-tial and temporal domains. IEEE Transactions on Robotics ,2023. 6, 12 [11] Roya Firoozi, Johnathan Tucker, Stephen Tian, Anirudha Majumdar, Jiankai Sun, Weiyu Liu, Yuke Zhu, Shuran Song, Ashish Kapoor, Karol Hausman, et al. Foundation models in robotics: Applications, challenges, and the fu-ture. The International Journal of Robotics Research , page 02783649241281508, 2023. 2 [12] Yining Hong, Haoyu Zhen, Peihao Chen, Shuhong Zheng, Yilun Du, Zhenfang Chen, and Chuang Gan. 3d-llm: In-jecting the 3d world into large language models. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 36:20482–20494, 2023. 2 [13] Haoxu Huang, Fanqi Lin, Yingdong Hu, Shengjie Wang, and Yang Gao. Copa: General robotic manipulation through spatial constraints of parts with foundation models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.08248 , 2024. 2, 6 [14] Wenlong Huang, Chen Wang, Ruohan Zhang, Yunzhu Li, Jiajun Wu, and Li Fei-Fei. Voxposer: Composable 3d value maps for robotic manipulation with language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.05973 , 2023. 1, 6 [15] Wenlong Huang, Chen Wang, Yunzhu Li, Ruohan Zhang, and Li Fei-Fei. Rekep: Spatio-temporal reasoning of rela-tional keypoint constraints for robotic manipulation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.01652 , 2024. 2, 3, 6, 8 [16] Leslie Pack Kaelbling and Tom´ as Lozano-P´ erez. Hierarchi-cal task and motion planning in the now. In 2011 IEEE In-ternational Conference on Robotics and Automation , pages 1470–1477. IEEE, 2011. 3 [17] Leslie Pack Kaelbling and Tom´ as Lozano-P´ erez. Integrated task and motion planning in belief space. The International Journal of Robotics Research , 32(9-10):1194–1227, 2013. 3 [18] Kento Kawaharazuka, Tatsuya Matsushima, Andrew Gam-bardella, Jiaxian Guo, Chris Paxton, and Andy Zeng. Real-world robot applications of foundation models: A review. 

Advanced Robotics , pages 1–23, 2024. 2 [19] Moo Jin Kim, Karl Pertsch, Siddharth Karamcheti, Ted Xiao, Ashwin Balakrishna, Suraj Nair, Rafael Rafailov, Ethan Foster, Grace Lam, Pannag Sanketi, et al. Openvla: An open-source vision-language-action model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.09246 , 2024. 2 [20] Alexander Kirillov, Eric Mintun, Nikhila Ravi, Hanzi Mao, Chloe Rolland, Laura Gustafson, Tete Xiao, Spencer White-head, Alexander C Berg, Wan-Yen Lo, et al. Segment any-thing. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Con-ference on Computer Vision , pages 4015–4026, 2023. 3 [21] Olivia Y Lee, Annie Xie, Kuan Fang, Karl Pertsch, and Chelsea Finn. Affordance-guided reinforcement learning via visual prompting. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.10341 , 2024. 2 [22] Xuanyu Lei, Zonghan Yang, Xinrui Chen, Peng Li, and Yang Liu. Scaffolding coordinates to promote vision-language coordination in large multi-modal models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.12058 , 2024. 4, 12 [23] Junnan Li, Dongxu Li, Silvio Savarese, and Steven Hoi. Blip-2: Bootstrapping language-image pre-training with frozen image encoders and large language models. In In-ternational conference on machine learning , pages 19730– 19742. PMLR, 2023. 2 [24] Xinghang Li, Minghuan Liu, Hanbo Zhang, Cunjun Yu, Jie Xu, Hongtao Wu, Chilam Cheang, Ya Jing, Weinan Zhang, Huaping Liu, et al. Vision-language foundation models as effective robot imitators. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.01378 ,2023. 2 17367 [25] Ziyi Lin, Chris Liu, Renrui Zhang, Peng Gao, Longtian Qiu, Han Xiao, Han Qiu, Chen Lin, Wenqi Shao, Keqin Chen, et al. Sphinx: The joint mixing of weights, tasks, and visual embeddings for multi-modal large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.07575 , 2023. 1 [26] Chang Liu, Kejian Shi, Kaichen Zhou, Haoxiao Wang, Jiyao Zhang, and Hao Dong. Rgbgrasp: Image-based object grasp-ing by capturing multiple views during robot arm movement with neural radiance fields. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters , 2024. 1 [27] Fangchen Liu, Kuan Fang, Pieter Abbeel, and Sergey Levine. Moka: Open-vocabulary robotic manipulation through mark-based visual prompting. In First Workshop on Vision-Language Models for Navigation and Manipulation at ICRA 2024 , 2024. 2, 3 [28] Haotian Liu, Chunyuan Li, Qingyang Wu, and Yong Jae Lee. Visual instruction tuning. Advances in neural information processing systems , 36, 2024. 1, 2 [29] Minghua Liu, Ruoxi Shi, Linghao Chen, Zhuoyang Zhang, Chao Xu, Xinyue Wei, Hansheng Chen, Chong Zeng, Ji-ayuan Gu, and Hao Su. One-2-3-45++: Fast single im-age to 3d objects with consistent multi-view generation and 3d diffusion. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 10072– 10083, 2024. 2, 4, 14 [30] Shilong Liu, Zhaoyang Zeng, Tianhe Ren, Feng Li, Hao Zhang, Jie Yang, Qing Jiang, Chunyuan Li, Jianwei Yang, Hang Su, et al. Grounding dino: Marrying dino with grounded pre-training for open-set object detection. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.05499 , 2023. 3 [31] Zeyi Liu, Arpit Bahety, and Shuran Song. Reflect: Summa-rizing robot experiences for failure explanation and correc-tion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.15724 , 2023. 2 [32] Lucas Manuelli, Wei Gao, Peter Florence, and Russ Tedrake. kpam: Keypoint affordances for category-level robotic ma-nipulation. In The International Symposium of Robotics Re-search , pages 132–157. Springer, 2019. 3 [33] Soroush Nasiriany, Fei Xia, Wenhao Yu, Ted Xiao, Jacky Liang, Ishita Dasgupta, Annie Xie, Danny Driess, Ayzaan Wahid, Zhuo Xu, et al. Pivot: Iterative visual prompt-ing elicits actionable knowledge for vlms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.07872 , 2024. 2, 3 [34] Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, et al. Learning transferable visual models from natural language supervi-sion. In International conference on machine learning , pages 8748–8763. PMLR, 2021. 1 [35] Tanner Schmidt, Richard Newcombe, and Dieter Fox. Self-supervised visual descriptor learning for dense correspon-dence. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters , 2(2):420– 427, 2016. 3 [36] Anthony Simeonov, Yilun Du, Andrea Tagliasacchi, Joshua B Tenenbaum, Alberto Rodriguez, Pulkit Agrawal, and Vincent Sitzmann. Neural descriptor fields: Se (3)-equivariant object representations for manipulation. In 

2022 International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA) , pages 6394–6400. IEEE, 2022. 3 [37] Ishika Singh, Valts Blukis, Arsalan Mousavian, Ankit Goyal, Danfei Xu, Jonathan Tremblay, Dieter Fox, Jesse Thomason, and Animesh Garg. Progprompt: Generating situated robot task plans using large language models. In 2023 IEEE In-ternational Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA) ,pages 11523–11530. IEEE, 2023. 2 [38] Ioan A Sucan, Mark Moll, and Lydia E Kavraki. The open motion planning library. IEEE Robotics & Automation Mag-azine , 19(4):72–82, 2012. 2 [39] Balakumar Sundaralingam, Siva Kumar Sastry Hari, Adam Fishman, Caelan Garrett, Karl Van Wyk, Valts Blukis, Alexander Millane, Helen Oleynikova, Ankur Handa, Fabio Ramos, et al. Curobo: Parallelized collision-free robot mo-tion generation. In 2023 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA) , pages 8112–8119. IEEE, 2023. 2, 7 [40] Roman Suvorov, Elizaveta Logacheva, Anton Mashikhin, Anastasia Remizova, Arsenii Ashukha, Aleksei Silvestrov, Naejin Kong, Harshith Goka, Kiwoong Park, and Victor Lempitsky. Resolution-robust large mask inpainting with fourier convolutions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.07161 ,2021. 12 [41] Dmitry Tochilkin, David Pankratz, Zexiang Liu, Zixuan Huang, Adam Letts, Yangguang Li, Ding Liang, Christian Laforte, Varun Jampani, and Yan-Pei Cao. Triposr: Fast 3d object reconstruction from a single image. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.02151 , 2024. 2, 4, 13, 14 [42] Marc Toussaint, Jason Harris, Jung-Su Ha, Danny Driess, and Wolfgang H¨ onig. Sequence-of-constraints mpc: Re-active timing-optimal control of sequential manipulation. In 2022 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS) , pages 13753–13760. IEEE, 2022. 2 [43] Hugo Touvron, Louis Martin, Kevin Stone, Peter Albert, Amjad Almahairi, Yasmine Babaei, Nikolay Bashlykov, Soumya Batra, Prajjwal Bhargava, Shruti Bhosale, et al. Llama 2: Open foundation and fine-tuned chat models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.09288 , 2023. 1 [44] Shinji Umeyama. Least-squares estimation of transforma-tion parameters between two point patterns. IEEE Transac-tions on Pattern Analysis & Machine Intelligence , 13(04): 376–380, 1991. 12 [45] Chenxi Wang, Hao-Shu Fang, Minghao Gou, Hongjie Fang, Jin Gao, and Cewu Lu. Graspness discovery in clutters for fast and accurate grasp detection. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision ,pages 15964–15973, 2021. 6, 12 [46] Bowen Wen, Wenzhao Lian, Kostas Bekris, and Stefan Schaal. You only demonstrate once: Category-level ma-nipulation from single visual demonstration. arXiv preprint arXiv:2201.12716 , 2022. 3 [47] Bowen Wen, Wei Yang, Jan Kautz, and Stan Birchfield. Foundationpose: Unified 6d pose estimation and tracking of novel objects. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 17868– 17879, 2024. 3 [48] Chuan Wen, Xingyu Lin, John So, Kai Chen, Qi Dou, Yang 17368 Gao, and Pieter Abbeel. Any-point trajectory modeling for policy learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.00025 , 2023. 3 [49] Tianhao Wu, Jinzhou Li, Jiyao Zhang, Mingdong Wu, and Hao Dong. Canonical representation and force-based pre-training of 3d tactile for dexterous visuo-tactile policy learn-ing. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.17549 , 2024. 1 [50] Tianhao Wu, Mingdong Wu, Jiyao Zhang, Yunchong Gan, and Hao Dong. Learning score-based grasping primitive for human-assisting dexterous grasping. Advances in Neural In-formation Processing Systems , 36, 2024. 1 [51] Jianwei Yang, Hao Zhang, Feng Li, Xueyan Zou, Chunyuan Li, and Jianfeng Gao. Set-of-mark prompting unleashes extraordinary visual grounding in gpt-4v. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.11441 , 2023. 3 [52] Senqiao Yang, Jiaming Liu, Ray Zhang, Mingjie Pan, Zoey Guo, Xiaoqi Li, Zehui Chen, Peng Gao, Yandong Guo, and Shanghang Zhang. Lidar-llm: Exploring the potential of large language models for 3d lidar understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.14074 , 2023. 2 [53] Sherry Yang, Ofir Nachum, Yilun Du, Jason Wei, Pieter Abbeel, and Dale Schuurmans. Foundation models for de-cision making: Problems, methods, and opportunities. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.04129 , 2023. 2 [54] Wentao Yuan, Jiafei Duan, Valts Blukis, Wilbert Pumacay, Ranjay Krishna, Adithyavairavan Murali, Arsalan Mousa-vian, and Dieter Fox. Robopoint: A vision-language model for spatial affordance prediction for robotics. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.10721 , 2024. 2 [55] Yiming Zeng, Mingdong Wu, Long Yang, Jiyao Zhang, Hao Ding, Hui Cheng, and Hao Dong. Lvdiffusor: Distilling functional rearrangement priors from large models into dif-fusor. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters , 2024. 1 [56] Xiaohua Zhai, Basil Mustafa, Alexander Kolesnikov, and Lucas Beyer. Sigmoid loss for language image pre-training. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision , pages 11975–11986, 2023. 1 [57] Jiyao Zhang, Mingdong Wu, and Hao Dong. Generative category-level object pose estimation via diffusion models. 

Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 36, 2024. 2 [58] Jiyao Zhang, Weiyao Huang, Bo Peng, Mingdong Wu, Fei Hu, Zijian Chen, Bo Zhao, and Hao Dong. Omni6dpose: A benchmark and model for universal 6d object pose esti-mation and tracking. In European Conference on Computer Vision , pages 199–216. Springer, 2025. 2, 4, 6, 14 [59] Zi-Xin Zou, Zhipeng Yu, Yuan-Chen Guo, Yangguang Li, Ding Liang, Yan-Pei Cao, and Song-Hai Zhang. Triplane meets gaussian splatting: Fast and generalizable single-view 3d reconstruction with transformers. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 10324–10335, 2024. 4 17369