Title: 2025.acl-long.695.pdf

URL Source: https://aclanthology.org/2025.acl-long.695.pdf

Published Time: Mon, 14 Jul 2025 11:33:23 GMT

Number of Pages: 16

Markdown Content:
Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 14199–14214 July 27 - August 1, 2025 ©2025 Association for Computational Linguistics EMMA -X: An Embodied Multimodal Action Model with Grounded Chain of Thought and Look-ahead Spatial Reasoning 

Qi Sun 1*, Pengfei Hong 2*, Tej Deep Pala 1, Vernon Y.H. Toh 1,U-Xuan Tan 1, Deepanway Ghosal 1 †, Soujanya Poria 31 Singapore University of Technology and Design 

2 HiThink Research 

3 Nanyang Technological University 

Abstract 

Traditional reinforcement learning-based robotic control methods are often task-specific and fail to generalize across diverse environments or unseen objects and instruc-tions. Visual Language Models (VLMs) demonstrate strong scene understanding and planning capabilities but lack the ability to generate actionable policies tailored to specific robotic embodiments. To address this, Visual-Language-Action (VLA) models have emerged, yet they face challenges in long-horizon spatial reasoning and grounded task planning. In this work, we propose the Embodied Multimodal Action Model with Grounded Chain of Thought and Look-ahead Spatial Reasoning, EMMA -X . EMMA -X lever-ages our constructed hierarchical embodiment dataset based on BridgeV2, containing 60,000 robot manipulation trajectories auto-annotated with grounded task reasoning and spatial guidance. Additionally, we introduce a trajec-tory segmentation strategy based on gripper states and motion trajectories, which can help mitigate hallucination in grounding subtask reasoning generation. Experimental results demonstrate that EMMA -X achieves superior performance over competitive baselines, par-ticularly in real-world robotic tasks requiring spatial reasoning. We make our codes, models, and datasets publicly available: https: //declare-lab.github.io/Emma-X/ .

1 Introduction 

The robotic policy model aims to generate se-quences of low-level action manipulation policies for robots. Traditional reinforcement learning-based robotic control methods often focus on nar-rowly defined tasks within fixed environments (Ma et al., 2024), hindering their ability to generalize 

> *

Both authors contributed equally to this work. 

> †

Now at Google Deepmind. SUBTASK: Grasping the pot cover                   

> REASONING: The robot is closing its gripper around the pot cover's
> handle to securely pick it up. This requires precision to ensure a
> stable grip.
> Task Reasoning of ECoT Our Task Reasoning
> Task: p ut the silver pot cover on the silver pot.
> Plan: Move to the silver pot cover, Close
> the gripper , Put the silver pot cover …
> Subtask :Move to the silver pot cover
> Reason :The silver pot cover is the closest
> to the robot arm and needs to be picked up
> first .
> ……
> Plan: Positioning over pot cover ，
> Grasping the pot cover , Lifting …
> Subtask :Grasping the pot cover
> Reason :The robot is closing its
> gripper around the pot cover's handle
> to securely pick it up …
> 𝒙
> 𝒚
> 𝒛
> 2D Gripper Position of Future State 3D Spatial Movements to Future State
> Our Spatial Reasoning

Figure 1: Comparison of our EMMA -X with ECoT in task reasoning. While both approaches utilize Gemini, our method also incorporates image sequence input, whereas ECoT relies solely on text input. We also illustrate an example of spatial reasoning. 

beyond task-specific training data and limiting their applicability (Brohan et al., 2023b; Chi et al.). Recent advancements in foundation models for vision and language have highlighted the remark-able scene-understanding and task-planning capa-bilities (Radford et al., 2021; Zhai et al., 2023; Tou-vron et al., 2023). These Visual-Language Models (VLMs) excel at breaking down complex tasks into manageable steps through chain-of-thought reasoning and demonstrate significant potential in planning. Despite their strengths, VLMs are not inherently designed to directly generate policies applicable to specific embodiment configurations in robotics. This limitation has spurred the emer-gence of Visual-Language-Action (VLA) models, which aim to bridge this gap by leveraging multi-modal inputs to produce adaptive and generalized robotic actions for complex, multi-task scenarios 

14199 (Brohan et al., 2023a; Kim et al., 2024; Octo Model Team et al., 2024). However, most of the existing VLA models of-ten exhibit “muscle memory” response patterns, struggling to perceive scene variation and under-stand instructions as humans do when handling complex tasks or ambiguous commands. Zawalski et al. (2024) attempts to address this issue through visual and task reasoning, including the bounding box of the object, task segmentation, and the direc-tion of predicted action, etc. Although they equip VLAs with an understanding of the current situa-tion and task, they lack long-horizon spatial reason-ing on how robots should move next. We hypothe-size that the completion of subgoals or subtasks can be enhanced if the VLA incorporates look-ahead spatial reasoning, such as inferring the gripper’s future 2D position and the 3D movement plans necessary for the gripper to reach that position. In particular, we train the VLA model to predict fu-ture position gt+k of the gripper as checkpoints and use them to devise a high-level movement plan 

β(gt, g t+k). This plan informs the immediate ac-tion at at the current state st, ensuring decisions are both reactive to the present and aligned with long-term objectives. Similar to a delivery driver planning a route with key landmarks to make pur-poseful driving decisions, this approach optimizes task completion by balancing foresight and adapt-ability. Additionally, another limitation in task reason-ing provided by ECoT(Zawalski et al., 2024) is the absence of visual grounding when augmenting rea-soning data using Gemini. We observe that Gemini frequently hallucinates due to a lack of holistic understanding of the setup and environment. As shown in Figure 1, the image shows that the robot already started to grasp the pot cover, while the task reasoning indicates the subtask is still “Move to silver pot cover", which conflicts with the fol-lowing reasoning they provided. In this work, we introduce the Embodied Mul-timodal Action Model with Grounded Chain of Thought Reasoning, EMMA -X . We develop a hier-archical embodiment dataset based on BridgeV2, consisting of 60,000 robot manipulation trajecto-ries. For each state of a given trajectory, we gen-erate detailed spatial reasoning grounded in the environment and task reasoning, such as the plans of how the robot should perform the subtask. As shown in Figure 1, we also generate the 2D gripper position, and 3D spatial movements of the gripper to transit to future states, which enable the VLA model to reason a long-horizon plan for accom-plishing the task. Furthermore, we utilize Gemini (Team et al., 2023) to generate grounded task reasoning for each observed state. To avoid the abovementioned rea-soning conflict problem of task reasoning in ECoT, we propose a novel trajectory segmentation strat-egy, which leverages the opening and closing states of the gripper and the motion trajectory of the robot arm to segment the sequence of states into distinct segments. By grounding, we mean that, unlike ECoT, which prompts Gemini to generate subtask reasoning based solely on textual descriptions, our approach incorporates visual images segmented using the aforementioned strategy. As shown in Figure 1, our method can accurately provide the subtask “Grasping the pot cover" corresponding to the current robotic state. This illustrates that our strategy significantly reduces Gemini’s hallu-cination issues by requiring it to construct a vi-sual understanding of the environment, rather than relying solely on textual descriptions of the envi-ronment. Finally, we train our EMMA -X based on OpenVLA using our constructed hierarchical embodiment dataset. The main contributions of our work are summa-rized as follows: • We introduce a 7B-parameter embodied mul-timodal action model, EMMA -X created by fine-tuning OpenVLA with the grounded chain of thought (CoT) reasoning data. • We synthetically construct a hierarchical em-bodiment dataset from the existing robot ma-nipulation dataset, which includes the 3D spatial movements, 2D gripper position, and grounded reasoning. • We propose a novel trajectory segmentation strategy that leverages the gripper’s opening and closing states alongside the motion tra-jectory of the robot arm, facilitating both grounded task reasoning and look-ahead spa-tial reasoning. • Our proposed EMMA -X achieves signifi-cant performance improvements over existing competitive baselines on various real-world robot tasks, especially in tasks where spatial reasoning is required. 14200 2 Problem Formulation 

2.1 Policy Imitation Learning 

Given a set of expert demonstrations D =

{({st}Tt=1 , Ti, {at}Tt=1 )}Ni=1 , where N is the num-ber of demonstrations in the dataset, T is the num-ber of states (image frames of the environment) for a data sample Di, si = image i represents the state consisting of an image of the environment, Ti is a natural language task instruction, and ai represents the action taken by the expert in that state, the goal is to learn a policy πθ(a | s, T ) that mimics the expert’s behavior. The policy πθ is modeled by a Vision-Language-Action (VLA) model. In line with the OpenVLA setting, the policy outputs a generalized action as a 7-dimensional vector. This vector encodes the end-effector’s (gripper’s) velocity of Cartesian com-ponents (x, y, z ), orientational components (roll, pitch, yaw), and the gripper’s close-open action. The goal is to find parameters θ that minimize the difference between predicted action and the expert’s action. 

2.2 Hierarchical Policy Imitation 

We build on the above formulation by decompos-ing a general task T into a hierarchical structure consisting of finer-grained components: states, seg-ments, and subtasks. A state at timestep t, denoted st, represents the scene. The sequence of states for the i-th trajec-tory is Si = {s1, s 2, . . . , s T }, where T is the num-ber of timesteps. An action at is taken at state 

st, and the corresponding sequence of actions is 

Ai = {a1, a 2, . . . , a T }. A segment σ is a series of consecutive states, {st, s t+1 , . . . , s t+k}, con-tributing to a subgoal, with Σi = {σ1, σ 2, . . . , σ n}

representing the segment sequence for the i-th trajectory. In each segment, the robot performs similar actions. A subtask S consists of seg-ments, {σ1, σ 2, . . . , σ p}, to achieve a specific sub-goal. Finally, a task T is a series of subtasks, 

{S 1, S2, . . . , Sm}, required to complete the over-all objective. Our Vision-Language-Action (VLA) model 

πθ(at | st, T ) predicts actions at for each state 

st by hierarchically decomposing tasks into sub-tasks. This ensures the end-effector’s motion aligns with subgoal intents, enhancing the model’s ability to execute complex tasks through manageable sub-tasks. We create a dataset D = {D i}Ni=1 , where 

Di = {Si, Σi, Ti}. Each state st ∈ Si is labeled with its subtask. Without such labeling, chain-of-thought training is infeasible. During inference, the model generates reasoning chains, including subtasks and relevant spatial information derived from visual scenes. 

3 Methodology 

In this section, we introduce our proposed frame-work in detail. Our EMMA -X encompasses three crucial designs: (1) Segmenting the trajectory based on the states of the gripper and the motion trajectory of the robotic arm. (2) Generating hierar-chical planning including grounded task reasoning, 2D gripper positions, and 3D spatial movements. (3) Training the our EMMA -X based on OpenVLA with our constructed dataset. 

3.1 Trajectory Segmentation Why Segment Trajectories? The overarching goal of our work is to enhance Vision-Language-Action (VLA) models with grounded chain-of-thought (CoT) reasoning. We identified two key limitations in existing VLAs: 1) While existing VLAs improve task decomposition by breaking a task into subtasks and solving each using CoT (Za-walski et al., 2024), their CoT reasoning relies ex-clusively on textual scene descriptions 1. This lim-its their reasoning capability for real-world scenar-ios. 2) They lack robust spatial reasoning abilities, essential for effective task planning and execution. To address these limitations, we propose two key solutions: Incorporating visual scene infor-mation: Beyond textual prompts, we integrate visual inputs into Gemini to enable task decompo-sition into subtasks and generate high-level plans grounded in both visual and textual contexts. Fine-grained movement plans: We train the robot to determine where to go and how to reach a potential future state necessary for completing a subtask. To implement these solutions, every state must be labeled with the subtask the robot is performing. However, our experiments revealed that directly an-notating each individual frame via Gemini resulted in noisy labels, likely due to insufficient contex-tual information. To overcome this, we segment trajectories into sequences of consecutive states where the robot performs semantically similar ac-tions. This segmentation provides richer context, 

> 1We use “scene” and “environment” interchangeably throughout this paper.

14201 Initial State Final State                          

> S1: Positioning over pot cover S2: Grasping the pot cover S3: Lifting and moving the pot cover
> (a) Motion Trajectory (b) Gripper State
> opening
> closing
> (c) Trajectory Segment (d) Movement Generation
> End Effector State
> [x1,y1,z1]
> End Effector Position
> [x1,y1,z1…]
> Movement to next segment
> 1. Move forward 22 steps
> 2. Move left 23 steps
> 3. Move downward 25 steps
> …
> 𝒑 𝒈𝒐𝒂𝒍 −𝒑 𝒏𝒐𝒘
> (f) Grounded Reasoning

...                                           

> S4: Positioning and placing
> the cover on the pot
> (e) Gripper Position
> OWL + SAM
> REASONING :
> The robot arm needs to move to the
> correct location above the pot cover
> to be able to grasp it …
> SUBTASK :
> Positioning over pot cover
> User: analyse the robot
> actions in each segment
> and give subtask and
> reason .
> SEGMENT: 1
> REASONING: The robot arm needs to
> move to the correct location above the pot
> cover to..
> SUBTASK: Positioning over pot cover
> Task :pick up the pot cover and put it on
> the silver pot .
> (g)

Figure 2: Construction of our hierarchical embodied dataset. We first segment the trajectory. Then, we generate the 3D spatial movement that requires to transition to the end state of the segment. Based on segments, we recognize the 2D gripper position and generate the grounded task reasoning. 

allowing Gemini to assign subtask labels more ef-fectively. Additionally, segmentation facilitates finding the gripper’s position in a future state and planning its movement. At a given state st, the model predicts the movement plan required to reach the initial state of the next segment, st+k, before determining the policy at for st. Since t + k > t , this approach enables the model to perform look-ahead spatial reasoning, predicting the gripper’s position at a likely future state, planning the motion trajectory, and generating at accordingly. 

Our Segmentation Method. As shown in Fig-ure 2(a) and Figure 2(b), we segment observation sequences by integrating the motion trajectory and the gripper states of the end effector. To achieve this, we utilize the Hierarchical Density-Based Spatial Clustering of Applications with Noise (HDBSCAN) algorithm (McInnes et al., 2017), which effectively handles noise stemming from small fluctuations caused by imperfections in hu-man demonstration. The flexibility of HDBSCAN enables the discovery of diverse trajectory patterns within the data. We define a custom distance measurement to segment the end effector’s trajectory, capturing both spatial and temporal information. Let pi =(xi, y i, z i) denote the 3D position, and ri =(rix , r iy , r iz ) represent the 3D orientation of data point i. Additionally, let ti represent the timestamp of this data point. The distance between two data points i and j is given by the following expression: 

d(i, j ) = ∥pi −pj ∥2 +λ∥ri −rj ∥2 +β|ti −tj | (1) where λ is a weighting factor for the orientation component, and β controls the influence of the temporal distance 2. This combined distance met-ric d(i, j ) ensures that both spatial movement and temporal separation contribute to the segmentation process. The inclusion of temporal information helps to distinguish trajectories that are spatially similar but occur at different times, while the orien-tation term captures changes in the end effector’s rotation. Applying the HDBSCAN algorithm with this distance metric allows us to segment the trajec-tory into meaningful clusters that reflect distinct movement patterns. However, the motion trajec-tory alone does not fully capture the interaction dynamics of the end effector with the environment. To address this, we incorporate the gripper state 

gs i, which represents whether the gripper is in a grip (closed) or loose (open) position. A seg-mentation breakpoint occurs when the HDBSCAN algorithm detects a new cluster or when the grip-per state changes between consecutive data points, formally defined as gs i̸ = gs i+1 .This dual-segmentation approach effectively combines trajectory-based clustering with interaction-based segmentation, ensuring that the resulting segments capture both the motion patterns and the manipulation actions of the end effector. By integrating these two modalities, we achieve a richer and more accurate segmentation of the policy. Finally, as a result of the segmentation pro-cess, we have a sequence of segments denoted as Σi = {σ1, σ 2, . . . , σ n}, where n is the num-

> 2

We use λ as 1 and β as 0.03 for best segmentation. 14202 Emma -X 

> Instruction: pick up the pot cover and put it on the
> silver pot.
> 2D Gripper Position of Current State : [112, 105]

… …    

> Image Tokenizer Text Tokenizer
> Action De -Tokenizer

…                 

> 7D Robot Actions: [∆𝒙 ,∆𝚯 ,∆𝑮𝒓𝒊𝒑 ]
> Reasoning: The robot has grasped the pot cover and is now lifting it …
> Subtask: Lifting and moving the pot cover
> 2D Gripper Position of Future State :[70, 103]
> 3D Movement :move forward 19 steps; move left 73 steps; move downward …
> Text Decoder

Hierarchical Embodiment Data 

60 K 

Trajectories Figure 3: The overview of EMMA -X fine-tuned from OpenVLA using our hierarchical embodiment dataset. 

ber of segments. Here, a segment is expressed as 

σ = {st, s t+1 , . . . , s t+k}, comprising k states. 

3.2 Data Generation 

After obtaining the segments, we generate hierar-chical embodied planning data for each demonstra-tion, as shown in Figure 2. For each segment of a demonstration, we produce the 2D end-effector position and 3D movements for the completion state of the current segment. Additionally, we gen-erate grounded reasoning for the corresponding subtasks. 

Why Look-ahead Spatial Reasoning? Consider the robot as a delivery driver tasked with delivering a package to a specific destination (the goal ). The driver has access to a detailed high-level map of the city, which provides potential landmarks or check-points ( st+k) along the way to the destination. To reach the goal efficiently, the driver performs two tasks: Plans a high-level route : The driver iden-tifies likely landmarks and routes to guide them toward the destination, akin to predicting st+k and the movement plan β(st, s t+k). Executes imme-diate driving decisions : While en route, the driver makes real-time decisions ( at), such as turning left or stopping at a traffic signal, informed by the planned route and the current position st.Without the ability to establish landmarks or checkpoints (future states) and plan routes based on them, the driver would rely solely on reactive de-cisions, leading to inefficiencies or incorrect paths. By integrating both the high-level plan and im-mediate feedback, the driver ensures purposeful and adaptive progress toward the goal. Following this analogy, we calculate the look-ahead gripper position and movement plan to reach there. 

Look-ahead Gripper Position Generation. Fol-lowing (Zawalski et al., 2024), we also use OWLv2 (Minderer et al., 2024) and SAM (Kirillov et al., 2023) to detect 2D gripper position, which can be seen in Figure 2(e). The difference is that they train the model to output only the gripper position for the current input state, whereas, in our data construc-tion process, we use the current gripper position as input and predict the gripper position for the first state of the next segment. Thus, although both approaches utilize the gripper position, our model focuses more on predicting the gripper position in future states during training, rather than identifying its position in the current state. Let’s consider for every state st, we obtain gt, the gripper position of the first state of the next segment. 

Look-ahead Movement Plan Generation. As shown in Figure 2(d), we infer the 3D spatial po-sitions corresponding to the current state and the end state of the current segment using the state policy of the robot. Specifically, we calculate the displacement between these two positions to deter-mine the direction and step size required for the manipulator to move from the current state to the end state. Following the motion language idea in RT-H (Belkhale et al., 2024a), we encode our high-level motion plans using a standardized template in Appendix E. By integrating look-ahead spatial rea-soning, the model incorporates both reactive and proactive decision-making. It combines immediate context at the current state st with a high-level plan that predicts likely future states st+k and the cor-responding movement strategy β(st, s t+k). This dual focus enables the model to align immediate actions with the overarching goal, ensuring pur-poseful and adaptive task execution. Please note that this data is not directly executed as the robot’s actions. Let’s consider for every state st, we will obtain mt, the movement plan to the first state of the next segment. 14203 Category Task OpenVLA ECoT EMMA -X (Ours)                                                                                                      

> h_Succ ( %)Succ ( %)h_Succ ( %)Succ ( %)h_Succ ( %)Succ ( %)SPATIAL RELATION Put the upper half of the carrot in the pot 30 10 35 20 80 60
> SPATIAL RELATION Put the left half of the lemon in the pan 30 035 10 55 20
> SPATIAL RELATION Put the blue cube on the left plate 25 20 5060 60
> SPATIAL RELATION Put the blue cube on the right plate 60 60 35 20 90 90
> OOD O BJECT Put the banana in pot 70 50 45 40 85 70
> OOD O BJECT Put the blue cube on the plate 90 90 20 10 85 70 OOD O BJECT Wipe the stove with towel 70 50 50 30 90 90
> OOD I NSTRUCTION Pick up any object that is a kind of vegetable 40 30 15 075 70
> OOD I NSTRUCTION Put the inedible object on the towel 0025 040 30
> OOD I NSTRUCTION Put the edible object on the towel 0015 10 35 0INDOMAIN Open microwave 50 30 25 065 30
> INDOMAIN Close microwave 80 60 45 40 100 100 Average 45.41 33.33 28.75 15.00 71.66 57.50

Table 1: Experimental results of EMMA -X and baselines on 12 real-world WidowX-250 robot manipulation tasks. 

Grounded Chain-of-Thought Reasoning. As shown in Figure 2(f) and (g), we utilize Gemini 3 to derive the subtask corresponding to each segment, along with scene understanding and the reasoning behind the series of actions the robot needs to per-form the subtask. Specifically, we take sequences of segmented images, and task descriptions as in-put to guide Gemini in generating the subtask and grounded reasoning for each segment. Compared to (Zawalski et al., 2024) that infer subtasks and their mapping to states solely from textual infor-mation, our approach first segments the sequence based on the robot’s motion trajectory and grip-per’s state as explained in Section 3.1. After that, based on the given multimodal information, we generate the corresponding subtasks and the rea-soning of each subtask. Note that each subtask can comprise multiple segments. For the i-th trajectory, we obtain the grounded reasoning from Gemini, de-fined as: GR i = {(σk, Sk, Rk) | k = 1 , . . . , n },

where: - σk is the k-th segment, - Sk is the subtask label assigned to σk, - Rk is Gemini’s justification for assigning subtask Sk to σk, and - n is the total number of segments in the trajectory. The prompt template can be seen in the Appendix B. 

The Final Dataset. The final dataset for the i-th trajectory in the training dataset is defined as: {D i}Ni=1 = {Xi, Y i}Ni=1 =

{{(st, Ti), (mt, g t, GR t, a t)}Tt=1 

}Ni=1 , where t =1, 2, . . . , T , and T is the total number of timesteps in the trajectory. 

3.3 EMMA -X 

In this section, we introduce the architecture of our proposed EMMA -X which is a 7B-parameter VLA 

> 3

We used gemini-1.5-pro-latest for our data generation. 

model fine-tuned from OpenVLA using our con-structed hierarchical embodiment data. As shown in Figure 3, we adjust the text prompt with the current gripper position and add chain-of-thought training to enhance the ability of spatial reasoning and scene understanding before predicting the next robot action policy. During the process of predicting for real robot testing, we input the task description, the current observation image, and the 2D gripper position detected in real-time by OWLv2 (Minderer et al., 2024) and SAM (Kirillov et al., 2023). EMMA -X first outputs the subtask and a description of the current scene, including the spatial relation-ship between the target object in the image and the robotic arm, as well as the operational instructions required for the gripper to reach the goal of the cur-rent subtask. Additionally, EMMA -X also predicts the target position the gripper needs to reach after completing the sub-task, including both the 2D lo-cation in the image and the 3D spatial movements. Finally, the model outputs the next 7D robot action policy for downstream manipulation. 

4 Experiments 

4.1 Implementation Details 

To create the hierarchical reasoning dataset, we employed our data creation pipeline on full BridgeData-v2, which consists of approximately 60,000 trajectories paired with task instructions, resulting in an augmented dataset. To train our VLA models, we employed Open-VLA, a 7B vision-language-action (VLA) model built upon the Prismatic vision-language frame-work and pretrained on the Open X-Embodiment dataset. For autoregressive training, we convert 14204 SPATIAL RELATION OOD O BJECT IN DOMAIN OOD I NSTRUCTION 

> 0
> 10
> 20
> 30
> 40
> 50
> 60
> 70
> 80
> 90
> 100

Different Categories of Tasks 

> Avg h_Succe Rate ( %) ECoT
> OpenVLA
> EMMA -X

Figure 4: Experimental results on different categories of real-world robot tasks. 

our continuous 7-dimensional action policy into discrete policy tokens, consistent with OpenVLA’s methodology. We adhere to OpenVLA’s training procedure and fine-tune the base model on our augmented dataset for 9 epochs until convergence. Once the reasoning and actions are converted into a unified string format, Emma-X is trained using a standard next-token prediction objective, opti-mizing the cross-entropy loss on predicted action tokens. Unlike OpenVLA, we use a smaller batch size of 64 to adapt to our specific hardware and experimental setup. 

4.2 Robot Setup and Metrics 

We evaluate our approach using the 6-DoF Wid-owX robot arm, as introduced in the Bridge V2 paper, which represents a standard benchmark for assessing generalizable robotic policies. The pol-icy takes as input a single third-person camera feed and a natural language instruction, predicting end-effector velocity actions to control the robot. To rigorously test the generalization capabilities of the policies, we develop a suite of challeng-ing evaluation tasks that span multiple aspects: in-domain scenarios, out-of-domain (OOD) objects, spatial relationships, and OOD instructions. All policies are assessed on identical real-world setups to ensure consistency in camera angle, lighting con-ditions, and background. Each task is conducted over 10 trials, adhering to the methodology estab-lished by OpenVLA. If the robot can successfully achieve the task specified inside the prompts, it is counted as a success ( succ ) receiving a score of 

1, otherwise, a score of 0 is assigned. Following OpenVLA, we also introduce a "half-success" ( h-succ ) metric that considers both the task goal and difficulty and assigns a 0.5 score only when the half-success criteria are met (Appendix C).                                                                                     

> Models SPATIAL RELATION OOD O BJECT OOD I NSTRUCTION
> h_Succ (%) Succ (%) h_Succ (%) Succ (%) h_Succ (%) Succ (%)
> EMMA -X 77 70 88 80 75 70 w/o mt42 ( ↓35 )37 ( ↓33 )63 ( ↓25 )55( ↓25 )40 ( ↓35 )30 ( ↓40 )w/o gt32 ( ↓45 )30 ( ↓40 )45 ( ↓43 )35 ( ↓45 )45 ( ↓30 )30 ( ↓40 )w/o GR t22 ( ↓55 )10 ( ↓60 )45 ( ↓43 )40 ( ↓40 )25 ( ↓50 )20 ( ↓50 )w/o HDBSCAN 27 ( ↓50 )20 ( ↓50 )53 ( ↓35 )35 ( ↓45 )65 ( ↓10 )40 ( ↓30 )OpenVLA 38 30 70 50 40 30 w/ FT 28 ( ↓10 )23 ( ↓17 )65 ( ↓5)50 ( ↓0)15 ( ↓25 )0 ( ↓30 )

Table 2: Models with different configurations. 

4.3 Baselines 

To comprehensively evaluate the performance of our proposed EMMA -X , we conduct extensive ex-periments across 12 different tasks on the real robot with several competitive methods. 

OpenVLA (Kim et al., 2024): A VLA model based on large-scale VLM Prismatic-7b and pre-trained on the Open-X-Embodiment dataset(Collaboration et al., 2023). 

OpenVLA w/ FT : For a fair comparison, we finetuned the OpenVLA model on the BridgeV2 dataset for the same number of epochs following the same training setting in our method. 

ECoT (Zawalski et al., 2024): A VLA model fine-tuned from OpenVLA on BridgeV2 dataset (Walke et al., 2023) with their generated chain-of-thought reasoning data. 

4.4 EMMA -X Improves Policy Generalization 

In this section, we compare EMMA -X with several baselines on 12 real-world robotic tasks. As shown in Table 1, our EMMA -X outperforms the strong baseline OpenVLA, with a 24.17% increase in task success rate and a 26.25% increase in half suc-cess rate. This demonstrates the effectiveness of our constructed hierarchical embodiment dataset. In addition, compared to ECOT, our EMMA -X 

shows significant gains, which can be caused by the following: 1) ECoT suffers from noisy training data, which causes hallucinations when faced with out-of-domain instructions or unfamiliar objects, leading to task failures. Interestingly, even for I N

DOMAIN tasks, it performs poorly compared to other models, highlighting its limited reasoning ca-pabilities. Our grounded task reasoning approach addresses this by incorporating the segmented vi-sual images, ensuring more accurate task under-standing. 2) EMMA -X enhances spatial reasoning by predicting the 2D gripper position of the end state of the current segment and 3D spatial move-ments to transit to it before predicting the next robot action policy. As shown in Figure 4, we also compared the 14205 Subtask : Reaching for the blue cube                                                      

> Reason :The robot arm is moving downwards and
> positioning its gripper above the blue cube to prepare for
> grasping .
> Future State Gripper Position: [128, 124 ]
> 3D Movement :move forward 22 steps ; move right 32
> steps; move downward 142 steps
> Task: put the blue cube on the left plate
> Current Gripper :[104, 52]
> Task: put edible object on the towel
> Current Gripper : [165, 79]
> Subtask :Reaching for the towel
> Reason :The robot needs to grasp the towel to be able to
> wipe the stove
> Future State Gripper Position: [147, 132]
> 3D Movement :move forward 22 steps; move left 22
> steps; move downward 72 steps
> Subtask :Reaching for the edible object
> Reason :The robot arm needs to move towards the
> pineapple to grasp it . This is the first step towards
> picking it up
> Future State Gripper Position: [147, 94]
> 3D Movement :move backward 1steps; move left 62
> steps; move downward 52 steps
> Task: wipe the stove with the towel
> Current Gripper :[142, 95 ]

Figure 5: Qualitative examples of successful and failed cases with EMMA -X on real-world robot testing. 

average performance across various categories of robotic tasks. Notably, our method achieved the most significant performance improvement in S PA -

TIAL RELATION tasks, outperforming OpenVLA by 35% and ECoT by 29% in the h_Succ rate. These results strongly validate the effectiveness of our predicted 3D spatial movements. Furthermore, our method demonstrated substantial performance gains in OOD I NSTRUCTION tasks, highlighting the efficacy of our grounded task reasoning. 

4.5 Analysis 

We trained several variants of EMMA -X to evalu-ate the roles of segmentation, look-ahead spatial reasoning, and grounded chain-of-thought (CoT) reasoning, which collectively constitute the core of EMMA -X . For this evaluation, we sampled 6 prompts across S PATIAL RELATION , OOD O B-

JECT , and OOD I NSTRUCTION (prompts are in-dicated in magenta color in Section C). For each prompt, we conducted 10 rollouts under the same experimental setup as our main experiments. 

Segmentation Greatly Helps the Policy. To evaluate the effectiveness of our segmentation technique, we conducted an experiment where se-quences were segmented solely based on the grip-per’s (end effector) open and close positions. The results, reported in Table 2 under the w/o HDB-SCAN condition, show a general performance drop of 10% to 50%. Notably, spatial reasoning per-formance experienced the most significant decline, with a drop of 50%. These findings demonstrate that the distance metric introduced in Eq. 1 is cru-cial for the segmentation process. 

The Impact of Look-ahead Spatial Reasoning. 

To evaluate the importance of look-ahead spa-tial reasoning, we conducted two experiments: 1) 

EMMA -X was trained without explicitly predicting the gripper’s position in the next segment, relying only on the predicted movement plan to reach the future gripper position of that segment (denoted as 

w/o gt in Table 2). This assumes that EMMA -X 

implicitly infers the future gripper position. 2) We trained EMMA -X to predict the future end effec-tor’s position but without rolling out a movement plan to reach that position (denoted as w/o mt in Ta-ble 2). The results reveal significant performance drops in both cases (25%-40% for “w/o mt” and 30% to 45% for “w/o gt”), with a more pronounced decline in spatial reasoning tasks (35% for “w/o 

mt” and 45% for “w/o gt”). Furthermore, the re-sults suggest that predicting the future end effec-tor’s position is more critical, as the performance drop in the absence of 3D spatial movements to the next segment is less severe. We hypothesize that this may be due to OpenVLA’s inherent spatial rea-soning capabilities, which enable it to more easily transition between positions. 

The Importance of Grounded CoT Reasoning. 

Grounded chain-of-thought (CoT) reasoning is a foundational element of EMMA -X . To assess its impact, we trained a variant of EMMA -X without grounded reasoning, while retaining look-ahead spatial reasoning in the data. The results show a marked performance drop by 43%-55%, highlight-ing that spatial reasoning alone is insufficient. In-terestingly, the absence of grounded CoT reasoning resulted in a more severe decline in spatial reason-ing performance compared to models where spatial reasoning capabilities were explicitly ablated. This underscores the critical role of grounded CoT in tackling complex reasoning tasks, including spatial reasoning. Therefore, we surmise that for enhanc-ing the generalizable policies of Vision-Language-14206 Action (VLA) models, it is essential to improve their broader reasoning capabilities, encompassing object recognition, color understanding, abstrac-tion, commonsense knowledge, and more. 

Fine-tuning does not Improve OpenVLA. We sought to find whether fine-tuning OpenVLA on BridgeV2 could match the performance of EMMA -X. The results, shown in Table 2, reveal that Open-VLA’s performance degrades by 5%-30% after fine-tuning with the worst performance observed for OOD I NSTRUCTION . We hypothesize that this decline is due to overfitting, as BridgeV2 is already part of OpenVLA’s pre-training dataset. 

Qualitative Analysis on Real-world Robot Task. 

To qualitatively evaluate the effectiveness of our spatial and task reasoning in guiding robotic ac-tions, we present two successful trajectories and one failed trajectory in Figure 5. From the left case, we find that the predicted gripper position corre-sponds to the end state of the subtask “reaching for the blue cube”. The 3D movement provides a de-tailed path, clearly directed toward the “blue cube”. We also include a failed trajectory where the “hot-dog" is mistakenly identified as a “pineapple". This error propagates, impacting the prediction of the gripper’s future position and preventing it from ac-curately picking up the “hot dog”. More reasoning samples of our EMMA -X and ECoT can be seen in Appendix G and H. 

5 Conclusion 

We introduce EMMA -X , a 7B-parameter embod-ied multimodal action model designed to enhance spatial reasoning and task planning for robotic pol-icy generation. We construct a hierarchical em-bodiment dataset enriched with grounded reason-ing, including 2D gripper positions and 3D spatial movements. Furthermore, our proposed trajectory segmentation strategy reduces hallucination in task reasoning by grounding reasoning in visual images. The experimental results demonstrate the effective-ness of EMMA -X , showing significant improve-ments over existing baselines in tasks requiring long-horizon spatial reasoning. 

Limitations 

While EMMA -X shows promising performance, its latency remains higher compared to OpenVLA. This increased inference time primarily results from the additional tokens generated during the reasoning process. Specifically, EMMA -X gen-erates approximately 10 times more tokens than OpenVLA. To mitigate this, a potential strategy is to predict all policies within a segment and only re-generate the policy if the predicted policy deviates significantly from the expected movement plan. Another limitation is the generalization capability of EMMA -X . Scaling the training process to in-corporate a larger subset of the OXE dataset could enhance the model’s ability to handle a broader range of tasks and robotic systems. Lastly, us-ing SAM for detecting the gripper position can lead to inaccuracies. These errors may occur when the gripper is partially occluded by objects or po-sitioned outside the image frame. Employing a more robust model for detecting and segmenting the robot hand could address these challenges and improve reliability. 

Acknowledgements 

Thanks to all co-authors for their hard work. The work is supported by the National Research Foun-dation, Singapore under its AI Singapore Pro-gramme (AISG Award No: AISG3-GV2023-010). Any opinions, findings, and conclusions, or recom-mendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not reflect the views of the Ministry of Education, Singapore. 

References   

> Suneel Belkhale, Tianli Ding, Ted Xiao, Pierre Ser-manet, Quon Vuong, Jonathan Tompson, Yevgen Chebotar, Debidatta Dwibedi, and Dorsa Sadigh. 2024a. Rt-h: Action hierarchies using language.
> Preprint , arXiv:2403.01823. Suneel Belkhale, Tianli Ding, Ted Xiao, Pierre Ser-manet, Quon Vuong, Jonathan Tompson, Yevgen Chebotar, Debidatta Dwibedi, and Dorsa Sadigh. 2024b. Rt-h: Action hierarchies using language.
> arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.01823 .Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Justice Carbajal, Yev-gen Chebotar, Xi Chen, Krzysztof Choromanski, Tianli Ding, Danny Driess, Avinava Dubey, Chelsea Finn, Pete Florence, Chuyuan Fu, Montse Gonza-lez Arenas, Keerthana Gopalakrishnan, Kehang Han, Karol Hausman, Alexander Herzog, Jasmine Hsu, Brian Ichter, Alex Irpan, Nikhil Joshi, Ryan Julian, Dmitry Kalashnikov, Yuheng Kuang, Isabel Leal, Lisa Lee, Tsang-Wei Edward Lee, Sergey Levine, Yao Lu, Henryk Michalewski, Igor Mordatch, Karl Pertsch, Kanishka Rao, Krista Reymann, Michael Ryoo, Grecia Salazar, Pannag Sanketi, Pierre Ser-manet, Jaspiar Singh, Anikait Singh, Radu Sori-cut, Huong Tran, Vincent Vanhoucke, Quan Vuong,

14207 Ayzaan Wahid, Stefan Welker, Paul Wohlhart, Jialin Wu, Fei Xia, Ted Xiao, Peng Xu, Sichun Xu, Tianhe Yu, and Brianna Zitkovich. 2023a. Rt-2: Vision-language-action models transfer web knowledge to robotic control. Preprint , arXiv:2307.15818. Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Justice Carbajal, Yevgen Chebotar, Joseph Dabis, Chelsea Finn, Keerthana Gopalakrishnan, Karol Hausman, Alex Herzog, Jasmine Hsu, Julian Ibarz, Brian Ichter, Alex Irpan, Tomas Jackson, Sally Jesmonth, Nikhil J Joshi, Ryan Julian, Dmitry Kalashnikov, Yuheng Kuang, Isabel Leal, Kuang-Huei Lee, Sergey Levine, Yao Lu, Utsav Malla, Deeksha Manjunath, Igor Mor-datch, Ofir Nachum, Carolina Parada, Jodilyn Per-alta, Emily Perez, Karl Pertsch, Jornell Quiambao, Kanishka Rao, Michael Ryoo, Grecia Salazar, Pan-nag Sanketi, Kevin Sayed, Jaspiar Singh, Sumedh Sontakke, Austin Stone, Clayton Tan, Huong Tran, Vincent Vanhoucke, Steve Vega, Quan Vuong, Fei Xia, Ted Xiao, Peng Xu, Sichun Xu, Tianhe Yu, and Brianna Zitkovich. 2023b. Rt-1: Robotics trans-former for real-world control at scale. Preprint ,arXiv:2212.06817. Cheng Chi, Zhenjia Xu, Siyuan Feng, Eric Cousineau, Yilun Du, Benjamin Burchfiel, Russ Tedrake, and Shuran Song. Diffusion policy: Visuomotor policy learning via action diffusion. The International Jour-nal of Robotics Research , page 02783649241273668. Open X-Embodiment Collaboration, Abby O’Neill, Abdul Rehman, Abhinav Gupta, Abhiram Mad-dukuri, Abhishek Gupta, Abhishek Padalkar, Abra-ham Lee, Acorn Pooley, Agrim Gupta, Ajay Man-dlekar, Ajinkya Jain, Albert Tung, Alex Bewley, Alex Herzog, Alex Irpan, Alexander Khazatsky, Anant Rai, Anchit Gupta, Andrew Wang, Andrey Kolobov, Anikait Singh, Animesh Garg, Aniruddha Kembhavi, Annie Xie, Anthony Brohan, Antonin Raffin, Archit Sharma, Arefeh Yavary, Arhan Jain, Ashwin Balakrishna, Ayzaan Wahid, Ben Burgess-Limerick, Beomjoon Kim, Bernhard SchÃ˝ ulkopf, Blake Wulfe, Brian Ichter, Cewu Lu, Charles Xu, Charlotte Le, Chelsea Finn, Chen Wang, Chenfeng Xu, Cheng Chi, Chenguang Huang, Christine Chan, Christopher Agia, Chuer Pan, Chuyuan Fu, Coline Devin, Danfei Xu, Daniel Morton, Danny Driess, Daphne Chen, Deepak Pathak, Dhruv Shah, Di-eter BÃijchler, Dinesh Jayaraman, Dmitry Kalash-nikov, Dorsa Sadigh, Edward Johns, Ethan Foster, Fangchen Liu, Federico Ceola, Fei Xia, Feiyu Zhao, Felipe Vieira Frujeri, Freek Stulp, Gaoyue Zhou, Gaurav S. Sukhatme, Gautam Salhotra, Ge Yan, Gilbert Feng, Giulio Schiavi, Glen Berseth, Gre-gory Kahn, Guangwen Yang, Guanzhi Wang, Hao Su, Hao-Shu Fang, Haochen Shi, Henghui Bao, Heni Ben Amor, Henrik I Christensen, Hiroki Fu-ruta, Homanga Bharadhwaj, Homer Walke, Hongjie Fang, Huy Ha, Igor Mordatch, Ilija Radosavovic, Is-abel Leal, Jacky Liang, Jad Abou-Chakra, Jaehyung Kim, Jaimyn Drake, Jan Peters, Jan Schneider, Jas-mine Hsu, Jay Vakil, Jeannette Bohg, Jeffrey Bing-ham, Jeffrey Wu, Jensen Gao, Jiaheng Hu, Jiajun Wu, Jialin Wu, Jiankai Sun, Jianlan Luo, Jiayuan Gu, Jie Tan, Jihoon Oh, Jimmy Wu, Jingpei Lu, Jingyun Yang, Jitendra Malik, JoÃˇ co SilvÃl’rio, Joey Hejna, Jonathan Booher, Jonathan Tompson, Jonathan Yang, Jordi Salvador, Joseph J. Lim, Junhyek Han, Kaiyuan Wang, Kanishka Rao, Karl Pertsch, Karol Hausman, Keegan Go, Keerthana Gopalakrishnan, Ken Gold-berg, Kendra Byrne, Kenneth Oslund, Kento Kawa-harazuka, Kevin Black, Kevin Lin, Kevin Zhang, Kiana Ehsani, Kiran Lekkala, Kirsty Ellis, Kris-han Rana, Krishnan Srinivasan, Kuan Fang, Ku-nal Pratap Singh, Kuo-Hao Zeng, Kyle Hatch, Kyle Hsu, Laurent Itti, Lawrence Yunliang Chen, Lerrel Pinto, Li Fei-Fei, Liam Tan, Linxi "Jim" Fan, Lionel Ott, Lisa Lee, Luca Weihs, Magnum Chen, Mar-ion Lepert, Marius Memmel, Masayoshi Tomizuka, Masha Itkina, Mateo Guaman Castro, Max Spero, Maximilian Du, Michael Ahn, Michael C. Yip, Mingtong Zhang, Mingyu Ding, Minho Heo, Mo-han Kumar Srirama, Mohit Sharma, Moo Jin Kim, Naoaki Kanazawa, Nicklas Hansen, Nicolas Heess, Nikhil J Joshi, Niko Suenderhauf, Ning Liu, Nor-man Di Palo, Nur Muhammad Mahi Shafiullah, Oier Mees, Oliver Kroemer, Osbert Bastani, Pannag R Sanketi, Patrick "Tree" Miller, Patrick Yin, Paul Wohlhart, Peng Xu, Peter David Fagan, Peter Mi-trano, Pierre Sermanet, Pieter Abbeel, Priya Sun-daresan, Qiuyu Chen, Quan Vuong, Rafael Rafailov, Ran Tian, Ria Doshi, Roberto Mart’in-Mart’in, Ro-han Baijal, Rosario Scalise, Rose Hendrix, Roy Lin, Runjia Qian, Ruohan Zhang, Russell Mendonca, Ru-tav Shah, Ryan Hoque, Ryan Julian, Samuel Bus-tamante, Sean Kirmani, Sergey Levine, Shan Lin, Sherry Moore, Shikhar Bahl, Shivin Dass, Shub-ham Sonawani, Shubham Tulsiani, Shuran Song, Sichun Xu, Siddhant Haldar, Siddharth Karamcheti, Simeon Adebola, Simon Guist, Soroush Nasiriany, Stefan Schaal, Stefan Welker, Stephen Tian, Sub-ramanian Ramamoorthy, Sudeep Dasari, Suneel Belkhale, Sungjae Park, Suraj Nair, Suvir Mirchan-dani, Takayuki Osa, Tanmay Gupta, Tatsuya Harada, Tatsuya Matsushima, Ted Xiao, Thomas Kollar, Tianhe Yu, Tianli Ding, Todor Davchev, Tony Z. Zhao, Travis Armstrong, Trevor Darrell, Trinity Chung, Vidhi Jain, Vikash Kumar, Vincent Van-houcke, Wei Zhan, Wenxuan Zhou, Wolfram Bur-gard, Xi Chen, Xiangyu Chen, Xiaolong Wang, Xing-hao Zhu, Xinyang Geng, Xiyuan Liu, Xu Liangwei, Xuanlin Li, Yansong Pang, Yao Lu, Yecheng Ja-son Ma, Yejin Kim, Yevgen Chebotar, Yifan Zhou, Yifeng Zhu, Yilin Wu, Ying Xu, Yixuan Wang, Yonatan Bisk, Yongqiang Dou, Yoonyoung Cho, Youngwoon Lee, Yuchen Cui, Yue Cao, Yueh-Hua Wu, Yujin Tang, Yuke Zhu, Yunchu Zhang, Yunfan Jiang, Yunshuang Li, Yunzhu Li, Yusuke Iwasawa, Yutaka Matsuo, Zehan Ma, Zhuo Xu, Zichen Jeff Cui, Zichen Zhang, Zipeng Fu, and Zipeng Lin. 2023. Open X-Embodiment: Robotic learning datasets and RT-X models. https://arxiv.org/abs/2310. 08864 .Yinpei Dai, Jayjun Lee, Nima Fazeli, and Joyce Chai. 2024. Racer: Rich language-guided failure recov-14208 ery policies for imitation learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.14674 .Moo Jin Kim, Karl Pertsch, Siddharth Karamcheti, Ted Xiao, Ashwin Balakrishna, Suraj Nair, Rafael Rafailov, Ethan P Foster, Pannag R Sanketi, Quan Vuong, Thomas Kollar, Benjamin Burchfiel, Russ Tedrake, Dorsa Sadigh, Sergey Levine, Percy Liang, and Chelsea Finn. 2024. OpenVLA: An open-source vision-language-action model. In 8th Annual Con-ference on Robot Learning .Alexander Kirillov, Eric Mintun, Nikhila Ravi, Hanzi Mao, Chloe Rolland, Laura Gustafson, Tete Xiao, Spencer Whitehead, Alexander C Berg, Wan-Yen Lo, et al. 2023. Segment anything. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision , pages 4015–4026. Jinming Li, Yichen Zhu, Zhibin Tang, Junjie Wen, Minjie Zhu, Xiaoyu Liu, Chengmeng Li, Ran Cheng, Yaxin Peng, and Feifei Feng. 2024a. Im-proving vision-language-action models via chain-of-affordance. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.20451 .Xiang Li, Cristina Mata, Jongwoo Park, Kumara Ka-hatapitiya, Yoo S. Jang, Jinghuan Shang, Kanchana Ranasinghe, Ryan Burgert, Mu Cai, Yong Jae Lee, and Michael S. Ryoo. 2024b. Llara: Supercharging robot learning data for vision-language policy. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.20095 .Yueen Ma, Zixing Song, Yuzheng Zhuang, Jianye Hao, and Irwin King. 2024. A survey on vision-language-action models for embodied ai. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.14093 .Leland McInnes, John Healy, and S. Astels. 2017. hdb-scan: Hierarchical density based clustering. J. Open Source Softw. , 2:205. Matthias Minderer, Alexey Gritsenko, and Neil Houlsby. 2024. Scaling open-vocabulary object detection. Ad-vances in Neural Information Processing Systems ,36. Vivek Myers, Bill C. Zheng, Oier Mees, Sergey Levine, and Kuan Fang. 2024. Policy adaptation via lan-guage optimization: Decomposing tasks for few-shot imitation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.16228 . Confer-ence on Robot Learning (CoRL) 2024. Dantong Niu, Yuvan Sharma, Giscard Biamby, Jerome Quenum, Yutong Bai, Baifeng Shi, Trevor Darrell, and Roei Herzig. 2024. Llarva: Vision-action in-struction tuning enhances robot learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.11815 .Octo Model Team, Dibya Ghosh, Homer Walke, Karl Pertsch, Kevin Black, Oier Mees, Sudeep Dasari, Joey Hejna, Charles Xu, Jianlan Luo, To-bias Kreiman, You Liang Tan, Pannag Sanketi, Quan Vuong, Ted Xiao, Dorsa Sadigh, Chelsea Finn, and Sergey Levine. 2024. Octo: An open-source general-ist robot policy. In Proceedings of Robotics: Science and Systems , Delft, Netherlands. Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sas-try, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, et al. 2021. Learning transferable visual models from natural language supervision. In International conference on machine learning , pages 8748–8763. PMLR. Gemini Team, Rohan Anil, Sebastian Borgeaud, Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Jiahui Yu, Radu Soricut, Johan Schalkwyk, Andrew M Dai, Anja Hauth, Katie Millican, et al. 2023. Gemini: a family of highly capable multimodal models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.11805 .Hugo Touvron, Louis Martin, Kevin Stone, Peter Al-bert, Amjad Almahairi, Yasmine Babaei, Nikolay Bashlykov, Soumya Batra, Prajjwal Bhargava, Shruti Bhosale, et al. 2023. Llama 2: Open founda-tion and fine-tuned chat models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.09288 .Homer Rich Walke, Kevin Black, Tony Z. Zhao, Quan Vuong, Chongyi Zheng, Philippe Hansen-Estruch, Andre Wang He, Vivek Myers, Moo Jin Kim, Max Du, Abraham Lee, Kuan Fang, Chelsea Finn, and Sergey Levine. 2023. Bridgedata v2: A dataset for robot learning at scale. In 7th Annual Conference on Robot Learning .Michał Zawalski, William Chen, Karl Pertsch, Oier Mees, Chelsea Finn, and Sergey Levine. 2024. Robotic control via embodied chain-of-thought rea-soning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.08693 .Xiaohua Zhai, Basil Mustafa, Alexander Kolesnikov, and Lucas Beyer. 2023. Sigmoid loss for language image pre-training. In 2023 IEEE/CVF Interna-tional Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) , pages 11941–11952. IEEE. 14209 A Related Work 

Vision–Language–Action (VLA) Models. Early “generalist” robot policies such as RT-1 and RT-2 showed that conditioning Transformer backbones on paired vision, language, and action tokens yields robust multi-task control across embodiments (Brohan et al., 2023b,a). Scaling data breadth (Open X-Embodiment) and model size (RT-2-X) further improves generalisation (Collaboration et al., 2023), while Octo (Octo Model Team et al., 2024) and OpenVLA (Kim et al., 2024) demonstrate compositional and end-to-end finetuning strategies, respectively. Despite these advances, VLAs still under-utilise the inherent reasoning abilities of their language backbones when solving long-horizon manipulation tasks. 

Spatial Reasoning with Chain-of-Thought. Recent work injects explicit spatial chain-of-thought (CoT) signals into policy generation. ECoT augments VLAs with textual rationales aligned to high-and low-level actions (Zawalski et al., 2024). LLaRA formulates control as visuo-textual conversations, aligning pixel-level gripper coordinates with actions (Li et al., 2024b). LLARVA leverages structured prompts and intermediate 2-D “visual traces” to couple perception and action (Niu et al., 2024). Chain-of-Affordance (CoA) further decomposes reasoning into sequential object, grasp, spatial, and motion affordances, boosting robustness in complex scenes (Li et al., 2024a). Our method extends this line by grounding CoT in predicted future states and hierarchical sub-goal selection. 

Language-Enriched Robot Demonstrations. A complementary direction repurposes existing robot datasets with richer linguistic structure. Policy Adaptation via Language Optimisation (PALO) samples task decompositions from a vision-language model to enable few-shot adaptation (Myers et al., 2024). RACER augments demonstrations with failure-recovery trajectories and fine-grained language, pairing a VLM supervisor with a visuomotor actor (Dai et al., 2024). RT-H builds an action hierarchy by first predicting “language motions” as an intermediate abstraction, improving robustness across multi-task datasets (Belkhale et al., 2024b). These language-enriched corpora highlight promising paths for data efficiency and reliable long-horizon control, motivating our future work on scaling grounded CoT generation to open-world manipulation settings. 

B Prompts and Sample Outputs 

Template for prompting Gemini to generate subtasks and reasoning.                                                                                                                                   

> The robot successfully completed atask specified by the instruction : '{ instruction }'.Here is alist of segments of images for the robot hand to perform the task specified by the instruction . Based on the sequence of segments provided in sequential order , pay attention to the robot hand and identify which subtask it is performing in each segment . Provide the justification for why the subtask should be done based on the environment . You can assign the same subtask to multiple segments . You should output in dictionary format : { segment_number : [ subtask , reason for justification ], ...}. The segment_number starts from 1and must be an integer . The output dictionary keys correspond to each segment , and the output dictionary length should be the same as the number of segments . { segment_count } Segment 1: images in segment 1Segment 2: images in segment 2... Segment n: images in segment n

14210 We list the Gemini output of the example in Figure 1 as follows:                                                                                                                                               

> Here \ 'sabreakdown of the robot \ 'ssubtasks in each segment :
> ``` json { 1: [" Positioning over pot cover ", " The robot arm needs to move to the correct location above the pot cover to be able to grasp it . This involves adjusting its position and orientation ."] , 2: [" Grasping the pot cover ", " The robot is closing its gripper around the pot cover \ 'shandle to securely pick it up . This requires precision to ensure astable grip ."] , 3: [" Lifting and moving the pot cover ", " The robot has grasped the pot cover and is now lifting it up and moving it towards the silver pot . It must avoid collision with other objects in the environment ."] , 4: [" Positioning and placing the cover on the pot ", " The robot carefully positions the cover above the silver pot and lowers it into place . This requires aligning the cover with the pot \ 'sopening and releasing the grip gently to avoid dropping or damaging the cover or pot ."] }

C Half Success Criteria 

The half-success criteria to for the metric h_success are as follows. The prompts in magenta color are used to report the results in Table 2. 

Task Half Success Criteria 

Put the banana in pot Robot successfully grasps the banana. Put the upper half of the carrot in the pot Robot moves towards or grasps the correct target object. Pick up any object that is a kind of vegetable Robot moves towards the correct vegetable. Put the left half of the lemon in the pan Robot moves towards and correctly selects the left half of the lemon. Put the blue cube on the plate Robot grasps the blue cube. Put the blue cube on the left plate Robot grasps the blue cube and moves it to-wards the left plate. Put the blue cube on the right plate Robot grasps the blue cube and moves it to-wards the right plate. Put the inedible object on the towel Robot moves towards the correct inedible ob-ject. Put the edible object on the towel Robot moves towards the correct edible object. Wipe the stove with a towel Robot touches the towel but does not wipe the stove. Open the microwave Robot partially opens the microwave door. Close the microwave Robot partially closes the microwave door. 

Table 3: The tasks used to evaluate the models and their half-success criteria. 

D Segmentation Statistics 

Average Number of frames per segment: 5.5 Average Number of segments per trajectory: 6.9 Average Number of frames per trajectory: 32.8 

E Motion Plan Template 

Translational Movements: move (left/right) x steps, move (forward/backward) y steps, move (upward/-downward) z steps. 14211 Rotational Movements: pitch (upward/downward) α degrees, yaw (left/right) β degrees, roll (clock-wise/counterclockwise) γ degrees. 

Gripper Action: (open/close) gripper. 

F Pseudo Code for Training E MMA -X and Running Inference 

Notations defined in 2.2 

Algorithm 1 Data Generation, Training, and Inference Process 

For each sample i in Embodied Dataset, we have: 

T : Number of time frames 

S = {st}Tt=1 : Images at each time frame t, where st is the image at time frame t

G = {gt}Tt=1 : Gripper poses at each time frame t (position, orientation, and open-or-close state) 

T : Task instruction in natural language format 

Training Process:  

> 1:

while not converged do  

> 2:

for each sample i do  

> 3:

Mframes →segments ← dual_segmentation (G) ▷ Mapping from frame to segment  

> 4:

Msegments →subtasks, reasons ← Gemini (S, G, T ) ▷ Mapping from segment to subtasks  

> 5:

for each time frame t ∈ { 1, 2, . . . , T } do  

> 6:

σt ← Mframes →segments (t) ▷ Get segment for time t 

> 7:

GR t ← Msegments →subtasks, reasons (σt) ▷ Get grounded reasoning from Gemini  

> 8:

gt ← SAM (st) ▷ Get 2D gripper position Using SAM model  

> 9:

gend ← SAM (Send ) ▷ Get 2D gripper position at end of current segment  

> 10:

mt ← Template (gt − gend ) ▷ Translational change to movement plan in natural language  

> 11:

prediction ← EMMA -X (T , s t, g t, GR t, g end , m t, a t) ▷ Perform supervised fine-tuning (SFT) with label: ( T , s t, g t, GR t, g end , m t, a t) 

> 12:

end for  

> 13:

end for  

> 14:

end while Inference Process:  

> 1:

while Task not completed do  

> 2:

gt ← SAM (st) 

> 3:

GR t, g end , m t, a t ← EMMA -X (T , s t, g t) 

> 4:

Control the robot using at, to get new st, g t 

> 5:

end while 

G Generated Annotations of our E MMA -X 

As illustrated in the Figure 6, we present the model’s reasoning across different real-world robot tasks, including its understanding of the current environment, task segmentation, and prediction of the robotic hand’s 2D and 3D positional movement in the subsequent state. 

H Comparison of ECoT with our E MMA -X 

We provide a comparison between the CoT data generated during our data generation phase and that of ECoT. As shown in the Figure 1, for the same frame in the BridgeV2 trajectory, ECOT’s reasoning sequence tends to exhibit misaligned task segmentation. Specifically, even when the robotic hand has already grasped the silver cover in the current frame, ECoT often remains in the previous task phase, predicting actions toward reaching the silver cover. 14212 Figure 6: The reasoning samples generated by EMMA -X during testing on real-world robot tasks. 

Figure 7: The reasoning of ECoT on our real-world robot tasks 14213 Additionally, we also provide several ECoT reasoning outputs during real-world robot testing. From the first case shown in Figure 7, we observe that ECOT’s reasoning in real-world tasks is prone to hallucination issues. For instance, hallucination in the bounding box: objects such as the "gray pot" or "red pepper" are not present in the observation, while the "blue cube" is missing. Such errors can severely mislead the robotic hand’s subsequent actions. In the second example, we further observe conflicts between subtask reasoning and motion planning, indicating inconsistencies in its decision-making process. 14214